

### How The ‘Austrian School’ Economists Saved Civilization Via The Publication Of F.A. Hayek’s ‘The Road To Serfdom’ And The Need For A Modern Repeat.


The disastrous spread of Socialist-Communist mythology which accelerated when Vladimir Lenin and his Bolsheviks created the Soviet Union was to an overwhelming degree stopped by our main protagonists of 'The Austrian School'. These men not only explained how the world works but also simplified the ideas in order to educate the masses and politicians and reached people of influence in order to stop the ideological disasters. For brevity’s sake we will focus on the achievements of Ludwig von Mises, Hayek, Henry Hazlitt, and Max Eastman. 

Unfortunately, criticisms of Socialism-‘Central Planning’, the vital focus on economic education as a means to overcome the fallacies and resulting disasters, and the Atlas-like fortitude and determination needed to act and reach people of influence with the right ideas just did not exist much, until Ludwig von Mises came along. We already briefly mentioned how Mises drove the intellectual stake through Socialist mythology by showing via his 1920 essay “Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth” that all-around Socialist central planning by “experts”, regardless of how smart or well-intentioned they may be, would always lead to the destruction of the social order. Mises also persuaded Austrian politicians away from Communism in the late 1910s when the Bolshevik-Socialist revolution was rapidly expanding thus helping stop the falling dominoes in Europe. Mises recalls:

>"There were few who recognized the state of affairs clearly. People were so convinced of the inevitability of Bolshevism that their main concern was securing a favorable place for themselves in the new order. The Catholic Church and its followers, the Christian Social Party, were prepared to befriend the Bolshevists with the same eagerness with which the bishops and archbishops would embrace National Socialism 20 years later. Bank directors and industrialists hoped to make good livings as managers under the Bolshevists. A certain Mr. Guenther, an industrial consultant to the Bodenkreditanstalt, assured Otto Bauer, in my presence, that he would prefer serving the people to serving a group of stockholders. The effect of this kind of declaration can be appreciated when one understands that this man was considered, although mistakenly, the best industrial manager in Austria." 

>"I knew what was at stake. Bolshevism would lead Vienna to starvation and terror within a few days. Plundering hordes would take to the streets and a second blood bath would destroy what was left of Viennese culture. After discussing these problems with the Bauers over the course of many evenings, I was finally able to persuade them of my view. Bauer's resulting moderation was a determining factor in Vienna's fate."

>"The most important task I undertook...was the forestalling of a Bolshevist takeover. The fact that events did not lead to such a regime in Vienna was my success and mine alone. Few supported me in my efforts...I alone convinced Bauer to abandon the idea of seeking union with Moscow." (Mises, 2009, p. 14,15,62)

In 1922 Mises wrote what is arguably still one of the greatest books of all time, ‘Socialism: An Economic and Sociological Analysis’, where he explains how the social order works and evolved, countless factors leading to erroneous Socialist mythology and much, much, much more. Hayek elaborates:

>"When Socialism first appeared in 1922, its impact was profound. It…altered the outlook of many of the young idealists returning to their studies after the First World War. I know, for I was one of them."

In September 1944, as World War Two was still raging, Hayek published a book where he tried to show how the same economic fallacies that led to Socialism of the Nazi and Soviet style, also increasingly dominated the thinking of the freer democracies like England, and would inevitably lead to, as his book was titled, "The Road To Serfdom". Properly identifying socialist ideology as an understandable error, he dedicated the book ‘to socialists of all parties’. Fellow freemarketeer and disciple of Mises, Henry Hazlitt, who was working at 'The New York Times' loved the book, wrote a glowing review which began as “In “The Road to Serfdom” Friedrich A. Hayek has written one of the most important books of our generation.” And had the review placed in the front page on The Times’ Book Review Section. The book became an instant sensation among The Times’ book readers. However, at over 250 pages its wisdom remained less accessible to a mass audience. Enter Max Eastman. Max Eastman had been one of America’s most prominent Socialists. He had traveled to the Soviet Union, befriended men like Leon Trotsky and even translated several of his works into English. But eventually the inevitable economic chaos and tyranny of Socialism led him to stumble upon the writings of Mises and Hayek, made an intellectual 180 and became a passionate defender of freedom-Capitalism. Max’s monumental contribution came when he created a brilliantly written [‘condensed’ version of Hayek’s book which was less than 40 pages](https://fee-misc.s3.amazonaws.com/files/docLib/20150731_RoadtoSerfdom.pdf), which with the help of The Reader’s Digest magazine where he worked was eventually sold to over one million American homes. By the time Hayek came to the US in April 1945 to go on a speaking tour, instead of giving small talks at university departments, his first event “drew an overflow crowd of more than 3,000 listeners and was broadcast [over the radio.”](https://press.uchicago.edu/Misc/Chicago/320553.html)

Hayek’s book and Eastman’s condensation were a great antidote to Marx’s short and viral ‘Communist Manifesto’. Instead of inspiring Socialist ideologues, it inspired freedom ones like Margaret Thatcher who read the book while an 18-year-old undergraduate at Oxford, and countless others like 3-time presidential candidate Dr. Ron Paul who writes:

>“My introduction to Austrian economics came when I was studying medicine at Duke University and came across a copy of Hayek’s The Road to Serfdom. After devouring this, I was determined to read whatever I could find on what I thought was this new school of economic thought—especially [the works of Mises”](https://cdn.mises.org/Mises%20and%20Austrian%20Economics%20A%20Personal%20View_2.pdf) (Paul, p. 4)

There are countless things we can learn from these men’s achievements. They had a laser-like focus on the very root of mankind’s problems. The economic ignorance that leads to the massive-coercive-competition-immune governments and resulting calamities. They believed that the public and average citizens could and should understand basic economics. As Mises writes:

>“Economics deals with society’s fundamental problems; it concerns everyone and belongs to all. It is the main and proper study of every citizen.”

Without this belief, the effort to educate would not exist so the government-created calamities would continue and as Mises tells us “then there is no hope left for mankind’s future.”

Remember Sowell? “People will forgive you for being wrong, but they will never forgive you for being right—especially if events prove you right while proving them wrong.” People, especially “intellectuals” whose sense of identity, self-worth, and oftentimes paycheck since many work for the government, are so deeply tied to the ideas they preach, that most are extremally negligent or hostile to superior ideas, thus causing the ideas to move very slowly. Here Max Eastman provides a great example of someone who was about as disastrously wrong as one can be and devoted much of his life to an error, and completely turn it around in a spectacular way. As dangerous and malicious as some popular politicians and ideologues can become, they focused, not on ill intent or malice by politicians or ideologues or the tribalistic masses whose ignorance they ultimately represent, but on economic ignorance and misunderstandings. Hayek elaborates:

>“When I stressed that is genuine intellectual error that we have to fight, what I meant to bring out is that we ought to remain aware that our opponents are often high-minded idealists whose harmful teachings are inspired by very noble ideals. It seems to me that the worst mistake a fighter for our ideals can make is to ascribe to our opponents dishonest or immoral aims.

>I know it is sometimes difficult not to be irritated into a feeling that most of them are a bunch of irresponsible demagogues who ought to know better. But though many of the followers of what we regard as the wrong prophets are neither just plain silly, or merely mischievous troublemakers, we ought to realise that their conceptions derive from serious thinkers whose ultimate ideals are not so very different from our own and with whom we differ not so much on ultimate values, but on the effective means of achieving them.

>I am indeed profoundly convinced that there is much less difference between us and our opponents on the ultimate values to be achieved than is commonly believed, and that the differences between us are chiefly intellectual differences. We at least believe that we have attained an understanding of the forces which have shaped civilisation which our opponents lack. Yet if we have not yet convinced them, the reason must be that our arguments are not yet quite good enough, that we have not yet made explicit some of the foundations on which our conclusions rest. Our chief task therefore must still be to improve the argument on which our case for a free society rests.”


No matter how bad things get, just a few determined people focused on spreading the right ideas can save civilization as these men did. We obviously need a repeat.