


### Creation and Spread of Information via Economic Competition and its emergence from the tradition of Private Property.


In the 'Social Organism'-economy superior information arises and spreads thanks to economic competition which emerges from the tradition of private property. Private property means that matter is under the exclusive control or ownership of a single person-mind-CPU. Each person is motivated to discover the best information with which to transform or reorder their private property in a way that increases its value or utility. Most of us transform the trillions of atoms that make up our bodies in a manner that maximizes the value-utility of the labor we produce and then trade with other people or companies. Some transform bread and beef to increase their value as hamburgers which are then traded with others, etc. From our freedom to use-transform our private property emerges the 'freedom to trade' it with anyone in the entire planet which inadvertently transforms mankind into a global supercomputer where people via the companies they create are motivated to innovate and learn from each other(competitors) thus inadvertently cooperate to discover and spread superior information and subsequent order. For example, a Honda engineer in Tokyo, Japan, may have invented power door locks which thanks to 'economic competition' motivated BMW in Germany, Ford in the USA, and other 'competitors' throughout the world to copy and thus spread superior information throughout the world. Why do they do this? Because people in their role as consumers have the 'freedom to trade' their life-order-sustaining wealth with the better informed auto-manufacturers(competitors), and as producers, to go into the auto manufacturing business. This in turn motivates all competitors to learn-copy each other lest they not get enough revenue-wealth with which to pay their employees a competitive wage so they use their 'freedom to trade' their labor to join the better-informed and thus more productive-efficient orders-companies. Notice how the biggest companies or 'private sector orders' in the world like Amazon, Apple, Walmart, Google and Microsoft, which hire and efficiently coordinate the actions of millions of fellow homo sapiens across the world regardless of age, sex, religion or race, do not force anyone to buy their products or coerce anyone in any way and have no army or tribalistic and patriotic flag salutations. They spend all of their time peacefully innovating and copying each other’s innovations thus inadvertently spreading superior information and subsequent social order. This wonderful automatic mechanism of *COMPETITIVE KNOWLEDGE DISCOVERY* is "turned on" or "emerges" from the simple concept, or better said, tradition of 'private property'. Private property gives everyone in our role as consumers the 'freedom to trade' our life-order-sustaining wealth for what we calculate-think is best. This 'freedom to trade-choose' in turn motivates everyone, in our role as producers, to *discover the best information with which to order* ourselves and the matter we control in a manner that produces something society-customers value (our labor, a product-service), which we do by, once again, innovating and-or copying-learning existing ideas-information, in other words, by competing in the economic sense. Most of us simply choose to produce and then trade our labor with a company-order that knows how to further incorporate our labor in a more competitive-profitable way. Via advertising, competitors are motivated to spread the potential usefulness and superiority of their products-ideas as well as the defects-inferiority of their competitors thus accelerating the need to compete-copy-spread superior information.  

A mind-CPU anywhere in the planet that comes up with an improvement will benefit everyone in the world if they are 'free to trade' for his product-service which will also motivate all competitors in the world to likewise improve their actions-order. So we can see how just like in the Olympics we can discover the best athletes in the world due to global competition, so does having the 'freedom to trade' with everyone in the world allows the best ideas to compete and spread globally thus ensuring the best possible global order. As cost-cutting ideas emerge and inevitably spread via competition leading prices to continuously fall, new profitable ideas easily arise and once again spread via competition in an endless cycle of knowledge generation-innovation. For example, computers were once very expensive, but once the price of making them came down enough, people easily realized that every home could have them, which gave birth to our computerized world and the Internet and all the great things that flow from it. The more wealth is produced, the more wealth has to be offered in exchange for labor as companies-orders compete against each other for the labor they need which helps explain why the economic pie grows for everyone. For example, imagine that after a shipwreck you end up in an island where everyone has a machine that can turn dirt into food. Tom wants your labor to build a home, Mark, to build a boat, and Gina to plant a garden. Competition will motivate them to offer you all the food you want and more.
 
