
Having discussed several aspects of the market process like economic competition and interest rates, as well as how 'private property' inadvertently leads to its emergence and civilization, we can now discuss how 'processes of selective evolution' evolved the 'market process'-'Social Organism' without conscious human planning or design. In other words, how vicious tribal slightly smarter apes had their culture-ideologies-software changed from their instinctual 'Law of the Jungle' which they have been practicing for millions of years to civilized commerce, tolerance, and at its very core, respect for private property. We discuss the process that tamed-civilized us, a process that was the result of our actions, but not of our conscious planning, similar to how cells inadvertently created the respiratory, circulatory, nervous, etc. systems that made up multicellular organisms. As Carl Menger asks:

>"How can it be that institutions that serve the common welfare and are extremely significant for its development come into being without a common will directed towards establishing [them?"](https://cdn.mises.org/Investigations%20into%20the%20Method%20of%20the%20Social%20Sciences_5.pdf) 

Hayek answered this monumentally important question via an evolutionary-competitive process that goes more or less as follows. If we envision mankind about 100,000 years ago, we would see a sort of petri-dish of competing cultures(languages-concepts-rules-laws) that are being 'naturally selected' based on their ability to grow the groups that contain them relative to other groups. Customs-concepts-rules-etc. that inadvertently cause their respective social orders to grow whether it'd be via conquest, successful defense, migration into, imitation, etc., will expand their order AND the very customs-concepts-rules-ideologies-etc. which helped them thrive. Every rule-law has an effect in the productivity-growth-survival of a social order. Given that a society-tribe is likely to have dozens of such rules it is impossible to know the exact impact of any one of them when considering the overall competitiveness of a society-order. For simplicity's sake let us focus on just one rule, what is the optimal punishment for theft? In the tribal past a stereotypical tribe might believe in some animal-spirit-god. The very existence-discussion of the concept among members of the tribe, coupled with inevitable dreams which would make such concepts seem real and shared among the tribe, would be enough to greatly solidify such mythology-religion. The shaman sacrifices the virgin and it happened to rain the next day thus making the "science" certain-settled. If the rains didn't come, perhaps she had to be sacrificed facing another direction. Again, what matters is how certain ideas make enough sense to create the 'echo chamber' that leads to them being carried out and propagated. Let's assume that in culture-tribe 'A' when a man steals he is killed which might deter many thefts but decreases the number of people in the group and all the productivity that this person might contribute in the future. In tribe 'B' they cut off a hand, and in tribe 'C' 10 lashes. Let's assume that tribe A's custom-rule of killing the thief actually proved to lead to a "fitter" social order. Perhaps it turns out that cutting off the hand led to an unproductive person that became a big drain on rest of tribe and a weak-useless fighter when it came to offense-defense so it was better if he was dead, and that lashes proved to not be enough of a deterrent which led to many thefts and retaliatory violence which turned out to be more costly than losing a member of the tribe. For simplicity's sake let us assume that this was by far the most important custom-rule affecting the growth-fitness of the social order, and that because of this, tribe-culture 'A' eventually displaced the others so that its kill-thieves rule-custom survived while the other punishments disappeared. The kill-thieves rule, is the result of human action, yet not the result of conscious human planning or design with the reasoned or conscious goal of having a more competitive-fit social order. The real designing of this rule or cultural element was made, not by innate instinct or human reason, but by 'natural selection'-competition-'group selection'-'cultural evolution'.

This concept of 'cultural evolution'-'group selection' allowed Hayek to identify a sort of 'third dimension'-source-mechanism for discovering-spreading knowledge which was neither instinctual (tied to our genetics-biology), nor the result of our conscious reason. As Hayek liked to refer to it, it was a mechanism for creating-spreading information which laid "between instinct and reason" and is the largely unknown-understood source of knowledge that played the vital role in the evolution of the market process and those related social institutions. Consider the following example, omnipresence, the ability to be everywhere at all times is another concept that would provide a great benefit to religions that used it to describe their God. Without God's omnipresence you could get away with breaking the rules that give society order and only have to face the consequences brought upon by fellow men. But if God is everywhere, watching your every move, you will be much more likely to follow those rules that give your society a productive social order. A similar case can be made for the concepts of "sin" and "evil". Did clever men "conspire" to create our religions to control us? Of course not. Like the 'market process', they too "are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design". It could be said that an omnipresent God is one of those culturally evolved-designed concepts that is far more important than anything our "reason" has ever invented, as Hayek writes:

 >"...we may owe to these religions the preservation - admittedly for false reasons - of practices that were more important in enabling man to survive in large numbers than most of what has been accomplished through reason."

These concepts-rules help enforce constraints on what for brevity's sake we'll refer to as our evolved tribalistic('small group')-primate-like nature-instincts-'law of the jungle', which for millions of years were shaped by things like violence, cannibalism, rape, what today would be considered pedophilia, tribal warfare and other practices which are now generally seen as abhorrent and whose relatively recent suppression via culture-religion-law enabled the emergence of the 'Social Organism'-civilization. Growing up is about programming-molding our flexible brains into learning all of these rules and thus rewiring them to be as happy as possible even though many of these restrictions go counter to our 'uncivilized instincts'. We have tentacle porn, Q.E.D. Obviously the molding-brainwashing fails quite often when we engage in rape-torture-militarism-war-"sin" and more. One can easily speculate about how the simplicity and pro-private-property character of Judaism's Ten Commandments ('Thou shalt not steal-murder-'commit adultery'- 'covet(neighbor's…)) and monotheism helped it be more 'viral' and thus be 'naturally selected' over other beliefs-religions that might have been more complex-confusing-contradictory and also be less respectful of private property thus inadvertently foregoing the emergence of the market process and corresponding 'Social Organism'-Civilization.

Due to numerous evolutionary pressures involved (megafauna extinction-etc.), agricultural-grain-bread-based society, although inferior and suddenly out of synch with our evolved big-game-hunter carnivorous biology in terms of nutrition at the individual level, was more conducive to trade, the resulting division of labor-information-competition, and thus a large more productive-powerful social order *at the group level*. Nomadic tribes can't carry around large buildings-granaries, increasingly-complex tools-weapons-etc. Instead of sharing things which was vital for tribal-communist intuitive existence, privatization became more important-productive. The privatization of land-resources-others(slavery)-women-children and accompanying-enforcing myths-taboos-religions began to be naturally selected for.  Our very concept of the "self" became more individualistic and less tied to a tribal-communal identity. We went from animalistic promiscuity-gang-bangs(women can have multiple orgasms and enjoy sex for longer uninterrupted periods than men due to sex with multiple males for millions of years), to a stricter and more privatized family structure with the necessary taboos-myths-software needed to enforce them ("...you shall eat bread..." Genesis 3:19, Ten Commandments...). Pre-agricultural man didn't even have a word or linguistic construct for a biological father, this cultural concept-language arose due to the natural selection of agricultural and pastoral societies which benefitted from such privatization, over the tribalistic-hunter-gatherer-communist groups that didn't. Egyptian civilization, although populated by relatively malnourished agrarian people, had an advanced division of labor-commerce, could feed-equip large armies and thus ultimately became one of [modernity's cultural great-grandparents.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bY2v6AnEyuU). 

Rules relating to sex are crucial given the biological importance and potential turmoil relating to it. For example, at some point we developed strong taboos-punishments for sex with animals. For example, the Hebrew Bible mentions:

>"Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put [to death." Exodus 22:18](https://www.mechon-mamre.org/p/pt/pt0222.htm)

>"And thou shalt not lie with any beast to defile thyself therewith; neither shall any woman stand before a beast, to lie down thereto; it [is perversion." Lev. 18:23](https://www.mechon-mamre.org/p/pt/pt0318.htm)

For the Hittites we have:

>"If a man has sexual relations with a cow, it is an unpermitted sexual pairing; he will be put to death"

However,

>"If a man has sexual relations with either a horse or a mule it is not an offense"


Some form of marriage custom has evolved to help deal with sexual issues and currently the ‘one man’-‘one woman’ rule has been the winning-selected strategy for most cultures, but it is impossible to predict that this arrangement is the best thing for mankind going forward. We certainly know that biologically we are polyamorous and much more like our primate cousins the chimpanzees and bonobos. Fake boobs, genetic engineering coming down the line, birth control, women’s freedom and who-knows-what-else-the-future-holds makes predicting what might emerge impossible. Thanks to the large amounts of wealth, safety, and tolerance that our modern societies now provide, even a single mother can easily provide for her children helping reach a new level of individualism that can make breaking away from the traditional family structure possible. Not that we are encouraging this. Preferably it is the freedom of each person to evaluate what is in his-her best interest while taking into account the freedom of others that guides this evolution from the bottom up instead of various coercive-controlling schemes the economically ignorant masses and their politicians increasingly fall for. Our ever-changing societies will lead to changes whose repercussions we will never be able to fully predict, as Hayek wrote: 

>“Man is not and never will be the master of his fate: his very reason always progresses by leading him into the unknown and unforeseen where he learns new things” (Hayek F. A., 1981, p. 176)

Morals have a lot to do with enforcing the sort of equality that leads to a stable social order. Traditional morals shun showing off and laying praise on qualities that cannot be shared or possessed by everyone. According to traditional morals if you have beautiful daughters, you don’t raise them to take advantage of their looks, on the contrary, it is considered virtuous to forego those advantages that most cannot have. Daddy’s little princes is groomed to be more virtuous, her beauty is like an extra special gift that should go to a man that has done great things for society; to the doctor, the respected member of the community, etc. And definitely not get knocked up by the local playboy who doesn’t have a job but uses his charm and good looks, something that does not add value to society and might not be possessed by others giving him an “unfair” advantage. By doing this sort of thing we create an environment that helps mold us into liking things that everyone can achieve and encourage productivity while disliking things that are not conducive to everyone’s happiness and leads to potentially unproductive habits. If we put too much emphasis on looks then there will be a small number of more beautiful people who set a standard for what is preferred that most cannot achieve, and given the way our minds work, how they are constantly making associations between traits, mannerisms, etc., and what is considered best, an increasing number of people fall into the pattern where they will be unhappy because they cannot associate themselves with that which the trendsetters are creating. This is the kind of thing that makes some fear genetic engineering and the legalization of steroids-prostitution-etc. We fear that suddenly many people will want to look a lot better, or some particular “look” becomes the ideal and the rest of us will either have to go along or have our kids grow up in an environment where they are relatively uglier and less associated with those characteristics that are considered attractive-successful. Any setting where we are associated with qualities that are not as good as those of others naturally make us feel a little uncomfortable, especially if everyone around us considers those qualities to be important. We tend to measure our success relative to others and for obvious reasons we tend to avoid such situations. A modern example of this is the online social sites like Facebook where a sort of subconscious popularity contest seems to drive much of what goes on. We just want to be associated with that which is considered fun and cool or praised by our culture. As we age, we have even less incentive to show off our looks and have a culture that places so much emphasis on looks etc., so older folks play a noticeable role in creating a cultural ambiance that also shuns such inequalities. We also praise hard work, self-reliance, and professional achievement. These are things that everyone can achieve and lead to a more productive society. Religion greatly helps here as well. We are all equal under the eyes of God(at least the large Islam-Christianity), so that too helps us associate great qualities that are held by everyone. We teach our children to try to put themselves in other people’s shoes, this way we can perhaps feel some of the pain our actions might have on others and hopefully this exercise will once again motivate us to act, live, and praise those things that everyone can excel at and have good consequences for society.

These "traditional morals" which are pretty universal and shared by grandparents of Americans, Chinese, Arabs, etc. have worked pretty well. For most of our evolution life was not about how “cool” your partner was, you just looked forward to having one and having enough wealth so that your children were well fed. People who deviated from these morals were quickly shunned and seen as selfish or "sinners", etc. They can-are-will change but what really matters is whether they lead to a competitive order the produces more than it consumes. Some people mistakenly believe that if certain traditions or social norms "break down" society will suffer greatly, but this will likely not be the case *if people understand basic economics.*  Theoretically and in all likelihood we can go back to having sex with animals and other practices today most consider barbaric, what we can't do is abandon-forget-abolish private property and resulting economic freedom. 

The above can help us understand some of the roots of the modern political Left(Darwinian-scientists-irreligious) vs.  Right (religious-tradition) divide. For example, to various degrees the Left tolerates-encourages the human animal in his natural, intuitive, animalistic state and thus attacks the culturally evolved gender roles as the increasingly influential LGBT movement shows, increasingly allows sexual activity by youth at whatever age may arise naturally, and is far more tolerant of things like prostitution. While the Right finds such things as sick or malicious perversions and injurious to society. This also helps us understand how the Left-Right mindsets or "identities" see the so-called Jeffrey Epstein scandal where many famous people like Bill Gates and Bill Clinton took many flights to the property where Epstein organized sexual relations between young women and visitors. Today's intellectual and political leaders are not religious and tend to be Darwinians and see little wrong with having sex with 13 year olds as was the case just a few centuries ago and even more so 50,000 years ago, so little effort to apply the law exists, especially when so many of today's leading figures seem to have participated. This also helps us understand the 'Balenciaga' clothing brand 'scandal' where adds by the brand implying a certain potential tolerance of sexual acts by minors created a storm of controversy. Again, an increasingly Darwinian mindset by an increasing number of thought-policy-intellectual leaders is moving in this direction causing a cultural war, especially as each group uses government force to coerce each other with its views.

Our cultural brainwashing also had to tame the feeling of envy and jealousy which obviously plays such an ardent factor in fueling the economically ignorant anti-Capitalist mentality. Hayek writes:

>“Envy and ignorance lead people to regard possessing more than one needs for current consumption as a matter for censure rather than merit. Yet the idea that such capital must be accumulated ‘at the expense of others’ is a throwback to economic views that, however obvious they may seem to some, are actually groundless, and make an accurate understanding of economic development impossible” (Hayek F. A., 1989, p. 124)


Just like natural selection modified solitary cells to have tumor suppressing genes to control rapid cell division-proliferation (cancer) in order to cooperate in a multi-cellular organism, so has cultural evolution likewise molded homo sapiens to suppress these "uncivilized" animalistic barbaric tendencies resulting in a far more prosperous order. As Hayek tells us:

>"Man has been civilized very much against his wishes. It was the price he had to pay for being able to raise a larger number of children. We especially dislike the economic disciplines… The indispensable rules of the free society require from us much that is unpleasant, such as suffering competition from others, seeing others being richer than ourselves, etc., etc." [(Hayek "Law, Legislation and Liberty, Volume 3: The Political Order of a Free People" 1981, p. 168)](https://books.google.com/books?id=malYAQAAQBAJ&pg=RA2-PA168&lpg=RA2-PA168&dq=such+as+suffering+competition+from+others,+seeing+others+being+richer+than+ourselves&source=bl&ots=kU2cMHmM0M&sig=ACfU3U1ebW7PN3x-KT4wq6sAFW2yairvrQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjzsbHQ4fDoAhVgmHIEHcT4BXoQ6AEwAXoECAQQLw#v=onepage&q=such%20as%20suffering%20competition%20from%20others%2C%20seeing%20others%20being%20richer%20than%20ourselves&f=false)

>"Constraints on the practices of the small group, it must be emphasized and repeated, are hated. For as we shall see, the individual following them, even though he depend on them for life, does not and usually cannot understand how they function or how they benefit him."…"Disliking these constraints so much, we hardly can be said to have selected them; rather, these constraints selected us: they enabled us to survive." [(Hayek "The Fatal Conceit", 1989, p. 14)](https://books.google.com/books?id=YQLYAQAAQBAJ&pg=PA14&lpg=PA14&dq=%22these+constraints+selected+us:+they+enabled+us+to+survive%22+the+fatal+conceit&source=bl&ots=OdrpACtIP1&sig=ACfU3U0Xx2-a-ItEjsfQyz7doxdiri__IA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjWl8qH4vDoAhUcmnIEHZcVA1sQ6AEwA3oECA8QLw#v=onepage&q=%22these%20constraints%20selected%20us%3A%20they%20enabled%20us%20to%20survive%22%20the%20fatal%20conceit&f=false)



