

### From Tradition to Reason: French Revolution, Lenin and the Bolshevik Revolution.


The slightly smarter apes have a good understanding of how to pee, shit, rape, and kill, but again, when it comes to anything related to the recently evolved 'market order', 'Social Organism', economics, like the aforementioned money equals wealth fallacy, or not understanding that war is the worst thing for mankind, the slightly smarter apes, including the "experts"-Krugmans-Keynes, are utterly clueless and easily susceptible to paralyzing and tyrannical Central Planning-Communism and thus destroying the social order. It is important that we understand how this occurred in the former Soviet Union because at its core the Coronavirus-related socioeconomic destruction-chaos-tyranny, actually all man-made disasters past and future, are ultimately based on the same mass economic ignorance-tribalism.

Let us discuss the state of man by around the 1700s.

Newton’s invention of calculus and his ability to use mathematics to discover his laws of motion and gravitation and general scientific progress gave humanity a consistent understanding of the mechanical workings of the world. The idea that the world could be explained with mathematics also began to tighten its grip on the minds of future scientists and social theorists (future economists). To Newton and many others this might have seemed like further proof of the genius of God and that just like there are God’s laws of nature there were also God’s laws of justice, or what some people refer to as the 'Natural Law'. God was still above everything and man tried to discover his physical laws as well as his moral laws and therefore justice, but the idea of giving society a human ‘rational’ order, which would have to violate or replace God’s laws, would spread through our minds with every scientific discovery, especially those that clearly refuted scripture(tradition). Science was doing away with God, and his laws and morals as a byproduct, and man began to create his own laws via legislation and representative governments. The "scientists"-"experts" and their "reason" began to replace the theologians-kings and their "traditions" which had been crafted-designed by thousands of years of cultural evolution. 

If one had to pick a single point in recent history to pinpoint this changing of the guard from a society built around God’s laws and 'naturally selected' traditions to a society centrally planned by human reason-experts, a good candidate would be the French Revolution(1789–1799) and the so called ‘Age of Reason’. France at the time was structured into three classes, the king and Catholic Church(First Estate), the Nobles(Second Estate), and the peasants-workers-merchants-traders who were lumped into the ‘Third Estate’ and paid all the taxes to support the first two. Inspired by the American Revolution, what people increasing saw as their 'natural rights' and other circumstances, the Third Estate rebelled, chopped the king’s head off, confiscated the Church’s property and made the Church subordinate to the State. All of this was great in a way, supposedly we were bringing equality under the law to all men and curbing the power of oppressive governments-kings-religious entities, but at the same time something else was beginning to happen, something that would enslave men for a new purpose in a new way. Socialism, the idea that government could be used to plan and better orchestrate society. Now government and man-made laws were above the Church, above Natural Law. The time came for human reason and good intentions to rewrite the laws, sometimes with disastrous results.

As the French Revolution was getting rid of an “evil” ruling class, science was accelerating its breakthroughs and inspiring influential thinkers like Saint-Simon, the founder of French Socialism. Saint-Simon wanted to organize a great “Council of Newton” made up of “three mathematicians, three physicists, three chemists, three physiologists, three authors, three painters and three musicians” who would then use their supposedly superior genius to tell everyone else what to do. Saint-Simon explains:

>“All men will work; they will regard themselves as laborers attached to one workshop whose efforts will be directed to guide human intelligence according to my divine foresight. The supreme Council of Newtown will [direct their works”](https://archive.org/stream/counterrevolutio030197mbp/counterrevolutio030197mbp_djvu.txt)

Hayek comments that:

>“Saint-Simon has no qualms about the means that will be employed to enforce the instructions of his central planning body: “Anybody who does not obey the orders will be treated by the others as a quadruped” ” [(Hayek F. A., 1979, pp. 221-2)](https://archive.org/stream/counterrevolutio030197mbp/counterrevolutio030197mbp_djvu.txt)

 

Saint-Simon’s plan of rule by a monopoly of "experts" is obviously a recipe for complete government control, for Socialism, for the inadvertent destruction of 'competitive knowledge discovery', the market process, and the entire social order, but with good intentions of course. Voltaire, who according to Hayek was “the greatest representative of the so-called ‘Age of Reason’” (Hayek F. A., 1985, p. 5) captured the spirit of the movement by saying “if you want good laws, burn those you have and make yourself new ones”. Just a couple of generations later, Charles Darwin’s discovery of biological evolution would make it even easier for man to discard God and His 'Natural Law' as an unfortunate byproduct. The growing complexity of the socioeconomic order, the overall increase in man’s ability to understand the physical world, the belief that science and technology would usher in a new way to socially engineer mankind for the better, and man’s subsequent departure from God’s justice, were amongst the key factors in transforming 'natural law' and its relatively strong respect for private property into 'positive law'-legislation with its anything-goes attitude towards private property and human life itself. The nature of government would slowly begin to change from an entity that was supposed to protect the individual God-given rights of its citizens and customs to an entity that could be used to engineer society for the better. 

But to engineer society one inevitably has to curb the freedom of the individual in order to implement the social engineer-government’s plans. As Adam Smith said with respect to the ‘social engineer’-leader-politician or what he refers to as “the man of system”:

>“The man of system, on the contrary, is apt to be very wise in his own conceit; and is often so enamoured with the supposed beauty of his own ideal plan of government, that he cannot suffer the smallest deviation from any part of it. He goes on to establish it completely and in all its parts, without any regard either to the great interests, or to the strong prejudices which may oppose it. He seems to imagine that he can arrange the different members of a great society with as much ease as the hand arranges the different pieces upon a chess-board. He does not consider that the pieces upon the chess-board have no other principle of motion besides that which the hand impresses upon them; but that, in the great chess-board of human society, every single piece has a principle of motion of its own, altogether different from that which the legislature might chuse to impress upon it. If those two principles coincide and act in the same direction, the game of human society will go on easily and harmoniously, and is very likely to be happy and successful. If they are opposite or different, the game will go on miserably, and the society must be at all times in the highest degree of disorder.” (Smith, p. VI.II.42)


During the last 200 years the rapid increases in technology and productivity have led to large perceived differences in wealth which have aggravated our sort of intuitive egalitarianism-tribalism. Instead of the Church, which was supposed to be a sort of representative from God who always had the best interest of everyone and the poor in mind, we began to see large concentrations of wealth in capitalists-investors-businessmen who were out to seemingly “hoard” as much wealth as possible to themselves and “obviously” leave less for the rest. The idea that all this wealth was created by mankind’s increased ability to transform that which was previously useless, was, and still is, not understood by people, which further aggravated our egalitarianism and anti-capitalist mentality setting the stage for egalitarian-socialist-communist-distributive policies. With the rise of mechanical power like steam engines and trains, our jobs have become less physically demanding. This too is something new. We saw a rise in new industries like finance, investing, banking, insurance, advertising, and a change in the proportion of people employed in manual labor compared to non-manual labor. For most of our evolution, wealth was directly related to our ability to physically transform nature, this involved hard physical labor and sweat. Many of us sort of intuitively consider jobs where we sweat and really have to physically exert ourselves to somehow be more “real” than jobs where you are not necessarily involved in the production of a tangible physical good with manual labor. In our tribal past anyone who had wealth and did not sweat for it, there was a good chance he stole it, tricked someone to get it, or hoarded it when he should have shared it. It just “seems unfair” that someone can have a hard physical job yet get paid a quarter of what someone else in a comfortable office can.

As freedom was increasing, so was 'competitive knowledge discovery' and resulting superior order and complexity, which increasingly fooled homo sapiens into a more fervent desire for monopoly-government central planning. As the world was advancing technologically so did the complexity associated with the production of most items. Until recently, the steps taken for the production of most items could be traced by a single mind. For example your potatoes were grown by a farmer who used a plow made out of copper dug up by some miners from a nearby mine. The potatoes were brought to the market in a carriage made of wood chopped from a nearby forest. Things were complex but still somewhat possible to trace in small-town life. As societies grew in complexity thanks to the market process, the complexity of the interactions grew to an incomprehensible network of trades, which made it seem chaotic to most of us given our lack of an understanding of the market process. It became “obvious” that things like competition were wasteful, “why have different producers each doing things differently, wouldn’t it be better if they all shared their knowledge and gained the benefits of standardization?” As we should know by now competition is needed to discover the best ways of doing things, but unfortunately this is not the idea which seemed obvious to most. Our instinct to give order to, and plan our actions, naturally translated itself into believing that we could give society a better order than the seemingly ‘chaotic’ and ‘unfair’ mess that capitalism-freedom was creating. And quite naturally we felt like it was the task of government planners to achieve this more perfect and “just” order, similarly to how in our tribal past an elder leader might orchestrate a large hunt or migration.

The idea of natural selection via evolution creating the biological order is beginning to be adopted or accepted by the majority of the modern world, because here, it is obvious that we did not design the complex processes that create-maintain the biological order. We can also almost see the process via our advanced knowledge of DNA-genetics. But the social order fools us into believing that we are responsible for it because it is our actions that are responsible for it. Yet we are not, it is the market process, natural selection’s second child, which creates the social order, which requires individual freedom (decentralized calculation) and is destroyed by government’s confiscation-redistribution of wealth.

We are also used to simple delegation and organizational thinking for everything we do in the world that immediately surrounds us. For example, we coordinate our households. Within companies, we delegate and can seemingly organize great accomplishments. New technologies and building-sized machinery allows us to create enormous orderly things, so we are fooled into believing that delegation and ‘organizational thinking’ can accomplish anything. But our purely delegation-based organizing techniques are not what organize the tremendous complexity of the social order, it is the market process. As Hayek writes:

>"Today organizational thinking increasingly dominates the activities of many of the most powerful and influential figures of modern society, the organizers themselves. The modern improvements in the technique of organization, and the consequent increase of the range of particular tasks which can be performed by means of large-scale organization far beyond what was possible before, have created the belief that there are no limits to what organization can achieve. Most people are no longer aware of the extent to which the more comprehensive order of society on which depends the very success of the organizations within it is due to ordering forces of an altogether different kind.” (Hayek F. A., 1976, p. 134)

 
Until the last couple hundred years, most people produced their goods or services and directly traded them in the market. For example, most people made a living by farming and selling their food, blacksmiths and carpenters directly traded their services or products with society. Trading-exchange, was a much more visible and clearly important activity compared to today where most of us do not directly trade some tangible and finished good or service with the population at large. This older “exchange society” was sustained by certain morals-customs which are now being inadvertently abandoned. Hayek explains:

>"This exchange society and the guidance of the co-ordination of a far-ranging division of labour by variable market prices was made possible by the spreading of certain gradually evolved moral beliefs which, after they spread, most men in the Western world learned to accept. These rules were inevitably learned by all the members of a population consisting chiefly of independent farmers, artisans and merchants and their servants and apprentices who shared the daily experiences of their masters”… “At present, however, an ever increasing part of the population of the Western World grow up as members of large organizations and thus strangers to those rules of the market which have made the great open society possible. To them the market economy is largely incomprehensible; they have never practised the rules on which it rests, and its results seem to them irrational and immoral. They often see in it merely an arbitrary structure maintained by some sinister power.” (Hayek F. A., 1981, pp. 164-5)
 
Who is that 'sinister power'? Each group of homo sapiens depending on their history and numerous circumstances mistakenly identifies a different boogeyman. As just briefly mentioned, since the recent and rapid evolution of 'the market process' occurred in Europe, understandably so for much of the third world and non-whites, it is "the white man" and his "exploitative Capitalism" and-or "racism". There is of course, the "evil corporations", "the rich-CEOs", "greed", "sexism", "minorities", "immigrants", "the Jews", etc. It is as if we are fooled into believing that just because the social order is the result of human action, that our problems are likewise the result of conscious planning or design-plotting by fellow slightly smarter apes. They are not. They are overwhelmingly the result of economic ignorance.

The 'market process' had given the whiter slightly smarter apes a relative technological advantage so as Spencer angrily laments:

>"Now that the white savages of Europe are overrunning the dark savages everywhere — now that the European nations are vying with one another in political burglaries — now that we have entered upon an era of social cannibalism in which the strong nations are devouring the weaker... it is useless to resist the wave of barbarism. There is a bad time coming, and civilized mankind will (morally) be uncivilized before civilization [can again advance."(17 July, 1898)](https://archive.org/stream/b29012193/b29012193_djvu.txt)

And sure enough, 11 years after Spencer's death (1903), as the Church's 'we are all equal under God' gave way to nationalistic-tribalistic movements along linguistic-ethnic lines the apes reverted to their intuitive tribalism and went wild in 1914 with Word War I and then the rapid spread of Communism.

So by the early 1900s viral economic fallacies and their socialist-statist-(central-monopoly planning) ideological result had gripped much of the western world’s intellectuals and masses. Mises writes:

>"By 1900 practically everyone in the German-speaking countries was either a statist (interventionist) or a state socialist. Capitalism was seen as a bad episode which fortunately had ended forever. The future belonged to the “State.” All enterprises suitable for expropriation were to be taken over by the state. All others were to be regulated in a way that would prevent businessmen from exploiting workers and consumers…When I entered the university, [I, too, was a thorough statist."](https://books.google.com/books?id=it9c6z4bw_8C&pg=PA79&lpg=PA79&dq=%22When+I+entered+the+university,+I,+too,+was+a+thorough+statist%22&source=bl&ots=w7tJ43ISAj&sig=ACfU3U25jZ_hfdZNRCe7ZwW4BAdfeq9_Kg&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwi03rH_48TuAhXSt1kKHWPRCn0Q6AEwAXoECAYQAg#v=onepage&q=%22When%20I%20entered%20the%20university%2C%20I%2C%20too%2C%20was%20a%20thorough%20statist%22&f=false)

Again, the slightly smarter apes had realized that their moral values and laws had been grounded on religious myths, they accelerated replacing the evolved wisdom-information-laws espoused by religious mythology (private property and family) which had tamed-brainwashed the savages into civilization, by the "reason" of "expert-scientist" apes. Not having the slightest clue what 'the market process' is and how civilization and the bewildering complexity of modern cities "emerges" from 'private property'-freedom since this amazing mechanisms-order had been designed, not by clever men, but by an evolutionary process we didn't even really understand at the time, they understandably fell for all the usual anti-Capitalist fallacies and saw religion and its traditions of private property and family as something backward and a tool of the growing business-Capitalist-"Bourgeoisie" class'. Just like complex environmental factors create selective pressures that favor the spread of certain genes, the environment was ripe for the emergence of a new religion-mythology, Socialism-Communism, 'Coercive Competition-immune Central Planning by Experts', Statism. Eventually some slightly smarter ape would describe these increasingly popular fallacies-myths in a manner that was bound to go viral and that is what happened with Karl Marx and his bite-sized 'Communist Manifesto':

>"the theory of the Communists may be summed up in the single sentence: Abolition of private property"...."Abolition of the family!" 

We now fast forward to the end of WWI(1918-9) when Vladimir Lenin begins to take control of Russia and attempts to bring about Socialism-Communism. The slightly smarter apes were about to go wild and revert to their intuitive egalitarianism-communism. Natural Selection was about to get a chance to select between the order created by human reason-experts-instincts-communism, and that of tradition-religion. Given that our major faiths evolved customs centered around small farming-trading communities, to significant degrees they centered around family life, not stealing, etc. which inadvertently played a key role in the emergence of the market order. It is true of course that the Catholic Church and Islamic Caliphates at times held enormous power but they certainly never intentioned to coordinate the entire socioeconomic order as the 'Scientific'-rational-atheists were about to attempt via Socialism-Communism. 

Lenin was "the man of system". As he tried hard to give a more "just" and "equal" order to the Russian people via government planning as opposed to letting the market process and individual economic freedom do so, he acknowledged and said the following, which seems like the perfect and unfortunate compliment to Adam Smith's recent quote/wisdom:

>"The machine refused to obey the hand that guided it. It was like a car that was going not in the direction the driver desired, but in the direction someone else desired; as if it were being driven by some mysterious, lawless hand, God knows whose, perhaps of a profiteer, or of a private capitalist, or of both. Be that as it may, the car is not going quite in the direction that the man at the wheel imagines, and often goes in an altogether different direction." (Lenin, 1922)

Lenin, as well as most people, believed that ["the key feature is people, the proper choice of people"](https://www.marxists.org/archive/lenin/works/1922/mar/27.htm), and if we could just have the right people-experts-'Great Leaders' with the right values government-central management would work. But Lenin was wrong of course, it is not so much the individual cells-people that matter, it is the system, it is freedom and its emergent competitive knowledge and socioeconomic order spreading mechanisms. It makes perfect sense how a bunch of economically clueless apes would go wild looking for and pledging support to the ape they feel has the right personal qualities (courage, honesty, intelligence, toughness, etc.) and coercing everyone to go along with the "master plans" while being totally ignorant of the need to discover the time-and-place information and incentives that can actually order mankind profitably (again, a manner-cycle in which more order-wealth is produced than consumed). The public not only believes that we need a benevolent dictator; the system naturally selects him for us. A confident fool will sway more minds than a doubtful and considerate genius. It is the man who thoroughly believes that he has the right “master plan” and great group of friends, that carries himself with the needed confidence to sway and inspire the public. As Bertrand Russell put it “The trouble with the world is that the stupid are cocksure and the intelligent are full of doubt.”


It is important that we see Communism-'Central Planning' and Lenin's Bolshevik Revolution and other Socialist-Communist uprisings which dominated the 20th century, as well as all of our socioeconomic problems since they are all caused or greatly exacerbated by competitionless-coercive-central-planning, as an almost inevitable spread of viral self-reinforcing economic fallacies and incentives that were just bound to finally spark in truly sustainable reactions. A young idealistic Russian could worry about how to make a good living in the always-uncertain and competitive private sector, or by joining Lenin and his Socialist Bolsheviks(government) he could become a hero to mankind by just forcing farmers-others to give up (share) their grain-wealth to feed a bureaucracy-monopoly of "experts" who would plan a superior order. Sign me up! Again, we must focus on how the ideas create intellectual 'echo chambers' and 'incentive structures' that lead the slightly smarter apes into either carnage or civilization. 

We should also highlight the fact that ideologues ultimately *inadvertently* stumble upon the fact that in order to carry out their wonderful plans, they must either coerce the public directly via edicts, force, direct taxes or regulations, or, even better, simply control the central banks. It becomes a lot easier to spread your ideology and create an 'incentive structure' where most people go along with your wonderful ideas when you can create the money and assure the public that you can provide the money-wealth they need. The money=wealth mass-fallacy-myth easily causes the apes to self-destroy as 1) It allows transfers of wealth from the productive private sector to the centrally-planned inefficiently ordered bureaucracies which will consume more than they produce thus destroying social order 2) It easily motivates the masses to peacefully fool themselves and even clamor for such an ultimately disastrous rearrangement. Again, we just have to remember Alan and his castle. The masses go from fear and uncertainty to the comfort of working towards the 'master plan' and see how they are getting the money they foolishly equate with wealth. We can easily see the inadvertent evolution of this process in our modern world where what increasingly matters to politicians-ideologues-masses is who will appoint or control the technocrats who run the 'central banks'-'Federal Reserve' and will thus be able to keep creating money-"stimulus" to take wealth from the private sector to seemingly accomplish anything  (Green New Deal, free education and healthcare, 'racial equality', visit gatesnotes.com for an up-to-date list of all potential 'social problems' and how Bill and Melinda Gates have a 'master plan' to solve each). This is essentially what the latest monkey-economics Modern Monetary Theory is all about. It is just continuous money-creation-taxation by central bank ideologues-technocrats. Regarding this disastrous myth of using money-creation-"inflationism" to manage society, something that the slightly smarter apes understandably repeatedly fall for, Hayek writes:

>"I do not think it is an exaggeration to say history is largely a history of inflation, usually inflations engineered by governments for the gain of governments."

>"Inflation is probably the most important single factor in that vicious circle wherein one kind of government action makes more and more government control necessary. For this reason all those who wish to stop the drift toward increasing government control should concentrate their effort on monetary policy." (Hayek, 1978)

Mises:

>"Inflation is the fiscal complement of statism and arbitrary government. It is a cog in the complex of policies and institutions which gradually lead toward totalitarianism."

A gold standard (or crypto these days perhaps) makes "inflationism" impossible thus helping keep wealth with the peaceful and productive private sector and away from tribalistic apes and their clueless Socialism and militarism.

>"Inflationism, however, is not an isolated phenomenon. It is only one piece in the total framework of politico-economic and socio-philosophical ideas of our time. Just as the sound money policy of gold standard advocates went hand in hand with liberalism, free trade, capitalism and peace, so is inflationism part and parcel of imperialism, militarism, protectionism, statism and socialism." (Mises, 2006, p. 43)


Lenin was a "great leader" who had the "strength" to carry out his vision. An example of one of the orders he was sending to various cities-districts to deal with farmers (kulaks) who were rebelling against the grain requisitions went as follows:

>“Comrades! The kulak uprising in your five districts must be crushed without pity. The interests of the whole revolution demand such actions, for the final struggle with the kulaks has now begun. You must make an example of these people. (1) Hang (I mean hang publicly, so that people see it) at least 100 kulaks, rich bastards, and known blood-suckers. (2) Publish their names. (3) Seize all their grain. (4) Single out the hostages per my instructions in yesterday’s telegram. Do all this so that for miles around people see it all. Understand it, tremble, and tell themselves that we are killing the bloodthirsty kulaks and that we will continue to do so. Reply saying you have received and carried out these instructions. Yours, Lenin. P.S. Find tougher people.” (Panne, et al., p. 72)"

The unproductive chaos-tyranny that Lenin was creating inevitably brought a gigantic famine that would claim about 5 million lives in 1921 and 1922. The majestic “The Black Book of Communism: Crimes, Terror, Repression” explains:

>“Despite the bad harvest of 1920…All grain stocks, even the seed for the future harvest, had been seized. Numerous peasants had virtually nothing to eat since January 1921. The mortality rate had immediately increased in February. In the space of two to three months, riots and revolts against the regime had effectively stopped in the province of Samara. “Today,” Vavilin explained, “there are no more revolts. We see new phenomena instead: crowds of thousands of starving people gather around the Executive Committee or the Party headquarters of the soviet to wait, for days and days, for the miraculous appearance of the food they need. It is impossible to chase this crowd away, and every day more of them die. They are dropping like flies…I think there must be at least 900,000 starving people in this province.” … “Though perfectly well informed of the inevitable consequences of the requisitioning policy, the government took no steps to combat these predicted effects. On 30 July 1921, while famine gripped a growing number of regions, Lenin and Molotov sent a telegram to all leaders of regional and provincial Party committees asking them to “bolster the mechanisms for food collection…step up the propaganda for the rural population, explaining the economic and political importance of the prompt payment of taxes…put at the disposal of the agencies for the collection of taxes in kind all the authority of the Party, and allow them to use all the disciplinary measures that the state itself would use.”” (Panne, et al., pp. 120-1)

Fortunately other Bolshevik leaders helped Lenin accept relief from international organizations like the Red Cross, the Quakers, and future US President Herbert Hoover’s American Relief Association whose combined efforts fed a whopping 11 million people each day. Lenin’s anti-market thus anti-production and thus anti-life-order government-control-measures where such a disaster that by 1921 Lenin scaled some of it back in what was called the NEP (New Economic Policy). The NEP essentially reintroduced some levels of private property-enterprise, especially for farmers-kulaks, which immediately led to a better functioning of the market process and substantial increases in food production.

Among the numerous things to learn from this and similar disasters is the fact that it is understandably difficult for ideologues like Lenin and his governmental structure ('echo chamber' of 'experts' and 'incentive structure' since they are wholly dependent on wealth taken by force from the masses) to change their minds since not only do they have to admit to error but also realize that they have caused unimaginable suffering. This is just the kind of stuff the slightly smarter apes don't do that often. The 'echo chambers' just intensify and get more negligent. The incentives are to look the other way, or place the blame elsewhere. Even though Lenin was becoming aware of the chaos he was causing, he understandably had incentives to look for other causes, like saboteurs, the rich-'capitalist exploiters', not social-distancing enough, the religious-church who did not want to relinquish power-authority etc. It was his economic policies that were intensifying the misery, but he would just double-down further intensifying it. 


The Soviet Union's rule by competition-immune "monopoly of experts-scientists" had disastrous consequences for scientific research as well. We are fooled into believing that it is "scientists" that make our wonderful innovations, but it is not "scientists" per se, but competition which requires freedom of course, something the Soviet Union lacked leading to massive competition-immune bureaucracies that evolved to fight change-discoveries and warp science-research in political-ideological ways. A particularly disastrous "scientist" who rose to the top in the 1930s was [Trofim Lysenko](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trofim_Lysenko) who led a campaign against the growing field of genetics, had many other [scientists-critics persecuted-killed](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2017/12/trofim-lysenko-soviet-union-russia/548786/) and whose competition-immune theories related to farming led to millions of deaths via crop failures both in Russia, and later in China helping lead to the Great Chinese Famine which [claimed 15-55 million lives.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Chinese_Famine#Extent_of_the_famine). Being a favorite of Stalin and also on good terms with his successor Nikita Khrushchev it wasn't until Khrushchev's downfall in 1963 that Lysenko was thoroughly discredited. From [his wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trofim_Lysenko):

>"In 1964, physicist [Andrei Sakharov](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrei_Sakharov) spoke out against Lysenko in the General Assembly of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR:

>>"He is responsible for the shameful backwardness of Soviet biology and of genetics in particular, for the dissemination of pseudo-scientific views, for adventurism, for the degradation of learning, and for the defamation, firing, arrest, even death, of many [genuine scientists.""](http://www.learntoquestion.com/seevak/groups/2003/sites/sakharov/AS/biography/dissent.html)


Rothbard summarizes:

>"The Lysenko controversy, the use of the State to eradicate the science of genetics in Soviet Russia, and the compulsory twisting of truth by the Soviet State to fit the ideological myths of its rulers, are well-known, but can hardly be overstressed. It is important to realize that it is not simply because the Soviet or Nazi leaders were particularly perverse men that they reached out to prevent or cripple science's drive for truth; but because such actions are inherent in the very nature of statism, and [central planning."](https://mises.org/library/innovation-and-state) 

Even though plenty of people knew Communism would bring about unimaginable suffering, the rate at which the economic ignorance-fallacies and perverse incentives appealed to the tribalistic smarter apes was much faster than the rate at which proper arguments against it could spread. One could say that the definitive knockout blow that proved the impossibility of central planning did not even exist until Ludwig von Mises wrote his ["Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth"](https://mises.org/library/economic-calculation-socialist-commonwealth) in 1920, far away and in a foreign language. Without sound economic arguments which were also brief enough to be somewhat viral much of mankind was doomed. The religious traditions of looking at the world's problems as the result of "good" vs. "evil" did not work with the atheistic Socialists-Communists who thanks to scientific progress and Darwin could easily discard deity-based arguments, in other words, mankind was stuck in what Mises referred to as "the moral sphere". Although within the context of economics, the following quote from Mises applies to all of mankind's problems. In just two consecutive paragraphs Mises does away with the "they are evil" fallacy, and the "they are mad" fallacy:

>"The problems involved are purely intellectual and must be dealt with as such. It is disastrous to shift them to the moral sphere and to dispose of supporters of opposite ideologies by calling them villains. It is vain to insist that what we are aiming at is good and what our adversaries want is bad. The question to be solved is precisely what is to be considered as good and what as bad. The rigid dogmatism peculiar to religious groups and to Marxism results only in irreconcilable conflict. It condemns beforehand all dissenters as evildoers, it calls into question their good faith, it asks them to surrender unconditionally. No social cooperation is possible where such an attitude prevails.

>No better is the propensity, very popular nowadays, to brand supporters of other ideologies as lunatics. Psychiatrists are vague in drawing a line between sanity and insanity. It would be preposterous for laymen to interfere with this fundamental issue of psychiatry. However, it is clear that if the mere fact that a man shares erroneous views and acts according to his errors qualifies him as mentally disabled, it would be very hard to discover an individual to which the epithet sane or normal could be attributed. Then we are bound to call the past generations lunatic because their ideas about the problems of the natural sciences and concomitantly their techniques differed from ours. Coming generations will call us lunatics for the same reason. Man is liable to error. If to err were the characteristic feature of mental disability, then everybody should be called mentally disabled." [(Mises)](https://mises.org/library/human-action-0/html/pp/714)


Thus the ideological battle between the atheistic-"scientific" anti-(religion-tradition) 'central planning by experts' viral fallacies and inherited religious traditions continued, with religion, private property, and thus humanity, suffering immensely. In the period between 1927 and 1940, the number of Orthodox Churches in the Soviet Union fell from 29,584 to less than 500. The Soviet Union’s anti-religion purges were equal-opportunity, in 1917 there were over 20,000 Islamic mosques in the Soviet Union, by 1935 there would be less than 60. Thousands of priests would stick to their faith and quickly be shot. The atheistic nature of the Soviet Union obviously played a role in making it so much easier to discard human life and thus tremendously deadlier. 

A family structure, as already mentioned, has been important for keeping the peace and other things, and obviously respect for private property is the foundation of our modern socioeconomic order. Communism-Socialism, good intentions and all, destroyed these two and inadvertently destroyed the order that emerged from them-itself. As Hayek mentions:

>"Among the founders of religions over the last two thousand years, many opposed property and the family. But the only religions that have survived are those which support property and the family. Thus the outlook for communism, which is both anti-property and anti-family(and also anti-religion), is not promising. For it is, I believe, itself a religion which had its time, and which is now declining rapidly. In communist and socialist countries we are watching how the natural selection of religious beliefs disposes of the maladapted" (Hayek F. A., 1989, p. 137)


In February 25th, 1956, Nikita Khrushchev shook the world by admitting that "the Great Terror", a political witch-hunt that Stalin carried out (1936-38) and led to the execution of about 700,000 people had been based on lies-exaggerations-etc. He had to wait till Stalin's death (1953) to admit this "mistake", however, it was not till 1991 that enough doubt and dissent emerged within the political structure and public in the USSR to finally put an end to the more textbook communist-socialist intellectual error and resulting perverse incentives and relative tyranny that ruled that area since 1918. Obviously immense praise should be given to Mikhail Gorbachev for admitting that the Communist ideology had been a massive failure-error. But the challenge did not end there, how do you get millions of people who have spent generations looking at a single bureaucracy to manage the social order and at least keep them alive to abandon that 'order maker' and trust freedom and competition? Soviet style Socialism and the perverse ideological myths and resulting 'incentive structure' lasted over 70 years. And it still persists today in countries like Cuba, North Korea, and there are Communist Parties with significant support in many countries and increasingly so in the USA.

Once you get the slightly smarter apes chasing their own tails via an ideological and incentive structure that grows government, and increasingly relies on 'Central Bank' money-creation to sustain the wealth-transfers needed to keep the governments-'Central Plans' going, one usually has to wait for it to self-destroy via economic collapse (at the country-group level) per Hayek's earlier quote:

>"The ultimate decision about what is accepted as right and wrong will be made not by individual human wisdom but by the disappearance of the groups that have adhered to the "wrong" beliefs."


### Good intentions and intelligence guided by economic ignorance leads to disaster. The case of Albert Einstein. 

Albert Einstein is perhaps the perfect example of a "genius" who with the best of intentions would use his "reason" to provide what is essentially a recipe for the destruction of civilization via his economically ignorant push for 'central planning'-Socialism. In his 1949 article "Why Socialism?" he writes:

>"Technological progress frequently results in more unemployment rather than in an easing of the burden of work for all. The profit motive, in conjunction with competition among capitalists, is responsible for an instability in the accumulation and utilization of capital which leads to increasingly severe depressions. Unlimited competition leads to a huge waste of labor…I am convinced there is only one way to eliminate these grave evils, namely through the establishment of a socialist economy, accompanied by an educational system which would be oriented toward social goals. In such an economy, the means of production are owned by society itself and are utilized in a planned fashion. A planned economy, which adjusts production to the needs of the community, would distribute the work to be done among all those able to work and would guarantee a livelihood to every man, woman, and child." [(Einstein, 1949)](https://monthlyreview.org/2009/05/01/why-socialism/)

Numerous disastrous economic fallacies can be found above. "Technological progress" allows us to lower costs so more wealth can be created while consuming less thus growing the economic pie. Technological progress has made it so that on average a single worker in the agricultural sector, thanks to increasingly automated tractors-machinery, can create vast quantities of food and competition between such farmers guarantees that they must innovate and copy each other's innovations and that they must sell their food cheaply-competitively so now the masses have more wealth to spend in other sectors helping them grow, like the IT sector and everything else we now have since we don't have 80% of people working on farms like we did just a few centuries ago. The wealth that no longer sustains a job that has been lost to automation simply goes to sustain some other job, allowing us to easily afford more stuff, the stuff that got automated and is cheaper thanks to it, plus the new stuff we spend our newly saved-extra money-wealth on. Einstein is utterly clueless about the fact that the "accumulation" of wealth by savers and "the rich" just enters the banking-finance sector where "interest rate coordination" pairs such wealth with most profitable ideas. 

As painful as it might be to admit for some, if Einstein can be so clueless, we can hardly blame Lenin, Stalin, Mao, Hitler, Roosevelt and the countless others for the misery they caused. 



