

#### Why we are not running out of natural resources.

Another side effect of our fundamental change from self-sufficient tribal world to 'market process coordinated' world is the importance associated with land and natural resources. We are somewhat intuitively territorial because land and the food and animals that it contained was of vital importance in our tribal past, but this is not the case today. Wealth and material prosperity needs two things, one is matter-'natural resources', and the second is a process that transforms this matter into human usable wealth. In our tribal past nature provided both the matter and the transformation, today nature provides the matter and we, the market-process-coordinated social organism, provide the transformation. With respect to matter-natural resources, they are abundant, we have an entire planet filled with them. Most people are worried that we are running out of natural resources but this is not true. As the complexity and embodied knowledge of our productive structures increases, our ability and ease with which we can transform matter into wealth increases faster and faster. As George Reisman explains:

>“There is no limit to the further advances that are possible. Hydrogen, the most abundant element in the universe, may turn out to be an economical source of fuel in the future. Atomic and hydrogen explosives, lasers, satellite detection systems, and, indeed, even space travel itself, open up limitless new possibilities for increasing the supply of economically useable mineral supplies. Advances in mining technology that would make it possible to mine economically at a depth of, say, ten thousand feet, instead of the present much more limited depths, or to mine beneath the oceans, would so increase the portion of the earth’s mass accessible to man that all previous supplies of accessible minerals would appear insignificant by comparison. And even at ten thousand feet, man would still, quite literally, just be scratching the surface, because the radius of the earth extends to a depth of four thousand miles.”[(Reisman, p. 64)](https://cdn.mises.org/Capitalism%20A%20Treatise%20on%20Economics_3.pdf)

 
Our ability to find new sources of energy seems to be increasing faster than the rate at which we consume them. For example, by the end of 1944, crude oil known reserves were 51 billion barrels worldwide. After 58 years, by 2002 we produced 917 billion barrels yet the known reserves had increased over twenty times to 1,266 billion barrels. From 1967 to 2003 2,563 trillion cubic feet of natural gas were produced yet during this time the known reserves increased six-fold from 1,041 in 1967 to 6,076 trillion cubic feet in 2003. In 1950 the world’s known coal reserves were 256 billion short tons, from 1950 to 2002, 188 were consumed and at the same time the known reserves increased more than fourfold from 256 to 1,089 billion short tons [(Bradley & Fulmer, pp. 88-89)](https://www.amazon.com/Energy-Resource-Robert-Bradley-Jr/dp/0757511694).  It is true of course that at some point in the future if the social organism does not find better ways of producing energy these resources will eventually run out. But why make dire predictions about a future that is at least hundreds of years away based on today’s inferior technology and knowledge? What are the chances that our ability to produce usable energy will not be greatly increased in the near future? Reality and history clearly show that our ability to produce energy is increasing faster than the rate at which we use it. One hundred years ago drilling miles deep into the earth and doing the transformations we are profitably capable of doing today were impossible, much less economically viable and profitable, and yet here we are, consuming more energy than ever and with more reserves as well. Today, many people who have no understanding whatsoever of how the market process works, dismiss countless sources of energy simply because they are currently too expensive or not economically viable without realizing that just about every one of today’s energy sources was too expensive in the near past.

Our natural resource problems are the result of our basic problem, our inability to recognize the fundamental change from tribal world to market process coordinated social organism, again our unfortunate ignorance of economics. We have evolved with little to no changes in technology. For the last 2 million years our technology was limited to a few simple stone tools. We have not evolved to intuitively understand how technology evolves and increases the social organism’s ability to transform the world for our benefit. When we think of technology, we think of individual gadgets or tools, but the word technology should have another meaning or perhaps we need a new word to embody the concentration of productive ability that is embodied in entire productive structures-companies made up of many human minds and their tools-computers and so on, each constantly improving their efficiency and therefore improving the efficiency of the whole productive structure. Again, these productive structures and how the market process shapes them via competition, prices, investing, interest rates and all the things we discussed in the economics chapter are new to us and unless we include their proper understanding as part of our weaning process we will continue to destroy the very mechanisms that have led to our own existence.

A perfect example of the social organism’s ability to transform matter into wealth is the Japanese human ant-farm. Japan has a total area a little smaller than the state of Montana and it is spread over 4 large islands and many smaller ones totaling over 3000 islands. The terrain is mountainous and volcanic, with relatively few and hard to get natural resources, yet the 130 million Japanese who live there make up the most complex productive order mankind has ever seen. Thousands of tons of matter are shipped to it daily and are transformed into wealth. The Japanese aren’t running out of space either, they simply transform matter from some mine somewhere to flooring that they stack on layers as they build up! Africa is full of natural resources and matter yet it lacks the most important ingredient for wealth, a complex human ant-farm capable of transforming that matter into wealth.  Or better said at a more fundamental level: the African human ant-farm does not have the laws, the simple respect for private property, which allows for a productive human ant-farm to emerge, they do not have Capitalism. 

Matter and natural resources are abundant, what really makes a difference in our modern world is the human ant-farm’s ability to transform this matter into human usable wealth as opposed to nature. What good does it do one to be standing on large deposits of crude oil or any other natural resource if you do not have a productive structure that can transform it into wealth? The planet has had petroleum and other natural resources long before we came to exist, it is thanks to the social organisms combined intelligence and not to their mere existence that natural resources become of any use. “Because the supply of resources provided by nature is one and the same with the supply of matter and energy, the supply of economically useable natural resources is capable of is virtually limitless. It increases as man expands his knowledge of and physical power over the world and universe” (Reisman, p. 64)

Once one understands economics and the workings of the market process, such zero-sum based fears should begin to go away.
