
#### The Conservation of Species.

Many people increasingly see human beings as a cancer that is growing and destroying the planet and selfishly and “unfairly” killing off other species. But this is not true, and the root of this mistake is due to our belief that we are somehow apart from nature and also to extending our egalitarian tendencies to all living things, and of course, the usual culprit, our lack of an understanding of how the market process creates the social order. It is important to keep in mind how flexible our minds are, we can brainwash ourselves to love and care greatly about fellow human beings but also things like our cars, favorite shirts, teddy bears, pets and especially for some biologists and nature lovers, all living things like bugs, grasses and so on, some of which unfortunately go extinct due to our flourishing. We are a new lifeform, not just a new kind of big-brained ape, we are parts of the new social organism. And species growing and changing the environment at the expense of others is fair game as far as natural selection is concerned. Actually, everything is fair game for natural selection. Our transition from social animal in our tribal world to market process coordinated social organism is as significant in the evolution of life and the continuous increase in complexity on this planet as the transition from single-celled to multicellular life which occurred about a billion years ago. Many people love the way beavers transform their environment when they build dams in rivers, yet they find our cities, skyscrapers, soaring planes, chemicals, and world of concrete and pavement to be an environmental disaster and are completely unaware that these transformations of the world around us are precisely what create a better environment for human beings. One free of snakes, rotting and decaying animals and the countless microbes which would be praying on us.

It can be easy to relate to people who love insects and grasses almost as much as human beings. Natural selection has created every creature to be so unique, with such a wonderful evolutionary story to tell. I love biology! One can even feel like other species besides human beings are sort of innocent because whatever seemingly “evil” things they need to do to survive are not done out of apparent malice like it might seem amongst us humans. Our wars and nuclear weapons can do so much damage; we could easily destroy the whole world and its amazing complexity which has taken natural selection billions of years to create. But even if this were the case, the evolutionary story of life has had many drastic extinctions and setbacks in the past, and perhaps a billion or two years in the future there will be big-brained roaches who reach our present level of civilization, it would just be an unfortunate change that I don’t want to happen either. But preventing the continued economic progress of mankind is not the way to go about helping other species. Other species need us. We are the species that will take the life-order-complexity we have evolved here to other places like the nearby planets and who knows what the future might hold. It is just a matter of time before some asteroid or other major natural disaster takes us out and quite possibly all life in this planet. Assuming there are other planets with life out there, they too will all need a human-being-like species that will also become a social organism and be able to overcome inevitable cosmic disasters. Not only is it great that we are alive right now, but we are part of that special cosmological event where life consciously wakes up and is able to protect itself from cosmological disasters and continue to expand its order. We need to realize that when we work and trade and therefore integrate ourselves with the social organism we are becoming something wonderful, much more unique than the species that will die off and weren’t able to achieve our order. Amongst the many good things we will be doing for all life is that thanks to rapid increases in biotechnology, within a relatively short time we will be able to sequence the genomes of any species we stumble upon with ease, helping save each specie’s amazing evolutionary journey should they be displaced by our progress. Obviously the environments where such creatures have evolved is in many ways as important as their genomes but I think they’d still appreciate our effort. Perhaps someday in the future we could recreate the habitats of species that are dying now and bring them back to life. We are the saviors of all life in this planet, not the destroyers. We are natural selection’s latest and greatest creation. As Spencer said:

>“Instead of civilization being artificial, it is a part of nature; all of a piece with the development of the embryo or the unfolding of a flower. The modifications mankind has undergone, and are still undergoing, result from a law underlying the whole organic creation.”

We really shouldn’t get too worked up over species dying. Every time a species dies you are giving a helping hand to whatever that species ate. Many times all that happens is that the balance of life-order changes, that’s all. Besides, if we slow down the progress of mankind we will be denying the right of the many species that have adapted to leeching off of us to continue their evolution. By preventing the further expansion of human beings we are also preventing the further evolution of things like roaches and the various diseases that pray on us. What about their rights and intrinsic value?

The intellectual fallacies which shape the environmentalist movement are in some ways far more dangerous than Socialism-Communism. Lenin, Stalin and Mao, as wrong and as brutal as they might have been, at least strived towards some socialist utopia where human beings would flourish. But for many in the environmentalist movement, who see human flourishing as more of a destructive cancer to life on this planet and thus something to be prevented, ultimately the death of billions and the prevention of future human life becomes their goal and this mindset will eventually bubble up to politicians that will go along with some disastrous human-depopulation scheme, or easily conclude that some seemingly inevitable world war might be good because it would lower human population-etc. 

The overpopulation myth is one the economically ignorant apes are inevitably falling for. The higher the population, the smarter and more productive the social organism becomes, which makes it easier to both understand and shape-adapt the environment-planet as the need might arise. However, as already mentioned, this "social learning" requires privatization to allow the billions of brains to discover and properly act and morph itself in a profitable way, again, a manner that coordinates the actions of billions of people in a way that is environmentally harmonious and keeps growing-nourishing-improving the social order, something the usual "central plans" of politicians and international environmental organizations have no familiarity with. 


Let’s read what a few [leading environmentalists have said](https://www.lewrockwell.com/2008/10/eric-englund/environmentalism-is-racism/):

Jacques-Yves Cousteau, environmentalist and documentary maker: "It’s terrible to have to say this. World population must be stabilized, and to do that we must eliminate 350,000 people per day. This is so horrible to contemplate that we shouldn’t even say it. But the general situation in which we are involved is lamentable."

John Davis, editor of Earth First! Journal: "I suspect that eradicating smallpox was wrong. It played an important part in balancing ecosystems."

Paul Ehrlich, Stanford University population biologist: "We’re at 6 billion people on the Earth, and that’s roughly three times what the planet should have. About 2 billion is optimal."

David Foreman, founder of Earth First!: "Phasing out the human race will solve every problem on earth, social and environmental."

David M. Graber, research biologist for the National Park Service: "It is cosmically unlikely that the developed world will choose to end its orgy of fossil-energy consumption, and the Third World its suicidal consumption of landscape. Until such time as Homo sapiens should decide to rejoin nature, some of us can only hope for the right virus to come along."

Alexander King, founder of the Malthusian Club of Rome: "My own doubts came when DDT was introduced. In Guyana, within two years, it had almost eliminated malaria. So my chief quarrel with DDT, in hindsight, is that it has greatly added to the population problem."

Merton Lambert, former spokesman for the Rockefeller Foundation: "The world has a cancer, and that cancer is man."

John Muir, founder of the Sierra Club: "Honorable representatives of the great saurians of older creation, may you long enjoy your lilies and rushes, and be blessed now and then with a mouthful of terror-stricken man by way of a dainty!"

Prince Phillip, Duke of Edinburgh, leader of the World Wildlife Fund: "If I were reincarnated I would wish to be returned to earth as a killer virus to lower human population levels."

Maurice Strong, U.N. environmental leader: "Isn't the only hope for the planet that the industrialized civilizations collapse? Isn't it our responsibility to bring that about?"

Ted Turner, CNN founder, UN supporter, and environmentalist: "A total population of 250–300 million people, a 95% decline from present levels, would be ideal."

Paul Watson, a founder of Greenpeace: "I got the impression that instead of going out to shoot birds, I should go out and shoot the kids who shoot birds."

Bill Gates "The world today has 6.8 billion people. That's headed up to about nine billion...we could lower that by perhaps [ten or 15 percent."](https://youtu.be/c4Aps2NPe54?t=1047)

When asked "...should we concern ourselves with feeding 8 billion people...or should we allow natural forces of carrying capacity to affect or limit population growth?" Dr. Charles Arntzen member of the US National Academy of Sciences(1983) replies: "Has anybody seen 'Contagion'? That's the answer! Go out and use genetic engineering to create a better virus... 25% of the world population is supposed to go [out in 'Contagion'"](https://youtu.be/stGT6NcxVRQ?t=126)


Not a single one of these “experts” has the slightest clue of what 'the market process' is or how it works, and much less how it has been evolved by natural selection via Hayek's 'group selection' which means that they don’t even really understand natural selection(although I’m sure all of them think they are experts at it!). Economic ignorance will eventually lead to mankind's "finest minds" and "top scientists", with the best of intentions from their own perspective, to wish for and sadly take concrete steps towards the eradication of homo sapiens. Some feel like we may have already reached such a state. We certainly have when it comes to population control in certain countries. For example in the 1970s the US government helped sterilize millions in India. Robert McNamara, former US Secretary of Defense (1961-1968) and President of the World Bank (1968-1981) visited the country in 1976 and congratulated it: ‘At long last India is moving effectively to address its population problem.’ This desire by an increasing number of very smart people to see mankind greatly reduced or eliminated altogether should not be seen as some malicious plot, just like with the rise-spread of Socialism, it is the erroneous and disastrous conclusion that many smart and well-intentioned minds will eventually reach without the proper understanding of economics. Economic education can easily make them fall in love with the marvels of the market process and thus fix their errors.

