
##### Global Warming and 'Climate Change'. 
 

All environment-related subjects we will discuss below, plus the economy, as well as medicine, nutrition, and immunology, especially as it related to CovidMania, have numerous things in common:

1. All are incredibly (what Menger-Mises-Hayek would call) 'complex phenomena', how one pollutant might affect the water supply and then biochemistry of life and so on; how large monocrops and pesticides affect complex-intertwined ecosystems; what effect cow farts have in certain gas levels and how these in turn might affect other things; how different foods affect health, is, again, immensely complex. This complexity allows errors to easily spread. Notice how there is no arguing over "The Math" like there is over "The Science".
2. All involve 'discovering' (a) to what degree certain potentially detrimental things are or may be happening and (b) how do we coordinate the actions of 8 billion people in a manner that does not cause more problems than it solves and takes into account a billion other factors.
3. The 'discovery' of such information CAN ONLY BE DONE by astute privatization and the 'competitive knowledge discovery' that emerges from it and has created civilization to begin with. Remember, the socioeconomic order has over 8 billion human beings in numerous complex and interconnected cycles of production-consumption that can only been harmoniously coordinated by the freedom of such individuals. However, as is to be expected from a horde of economically ignorant dangerous slightly smarter apes, mankind is moving towards competition-less-paralyzing-coercive Global Central Planning by 'expert apes' which understandably forces them to destroy the sovereignty (and thus ability to compete and try something different-better) of all nations-people and bring about a sort of Global Semi-Socialism with similar catastrophic results as the apes spiral downward in the usual blame-game-coercion as we are already seeing.
4. They all could theoretically-hypothetically lead to disaster-extinction. Whether it is *'the destruction of fragile ecosystems that can inadvertently destroy all life'*, or *'climate change destroying the planet'*,  *'the inevitable killer pandemic that can wipe out mankind in our newly-interconnected world'*, *'cancer-diabetes epidemic'* , *'economic imbalances'*, etc., this understandably scares and motivates more government investment in such potential areas which inadvertently creates a petri dish of scientists and researchers who are incentivized to create more and more potential hypotheticals which causes more government money to spread the fear and funds for more doomsday scenarios. If for example the government is giving billions to 'climate scientists'-virologists even if we assume most are honest, it only takes a few negligent exaggerators, or even honest scientists who simply make mistakes leading to "evidence" supporting the doomsday scenarios, which of course then leads to even more money to spread the inadvertent hysteria and more and more minds-businesses financially dependent and motivated to keep the erroneous scenarios going. The way things inadvertently have evolved is that there is very little money to be made from debunking the numerous potential errors or frauds and resulting "we are all going to die unless we have the 'scientists' and 'experts' at government run the world", while there is a tremendous amount of money to be made by getting funding to implement all the "Green"-medical stuff-projects. Thus inadvertently, without some malicious master-plan, there will tend to be a bias for the spreading-growth of misguided scary scenarios. 

5. Just like the disastrous Communist ideology quickly spread because it provided a simplistic myth that many people could easily support (just do what the 'experts' say), so does the evolving Green-medical bureaucracies-ideologies and their peddling that "Green Jobs" are good when in reality they are NOT! If the government spends one million dollars employing 20 people to study the potential effects of sea level rise on turtle mating habits in Florida's West coast, a million dollars worth of food, energy, transportation, housing, etc. got consumed thus reducing the economic pie while increasing the amount of government-monopoly-dictated speculative stuff for a massive general loss in real wealth, wealth that had to be taken from others by force-inflation, leaving them with less to spend on things that really improve mankind and sustaining private sector jobs. The only transformations of matter (wealth) which lead to life-order are those that free people are using the vital local-time-and-place information to make. Again, just because people are "working" it does not mean that they are engaged in a cycle of production-consumption which leads to wealth-life-order. The 'Green Economy' and 'Environmentalism' in general is just another incarnation or repeat of the fears and fallacies that lead to an expanding 'echo chamber' of self-reinforcing myths leading to another destructive 'incentive structure' (grow government -> work for government, etc). Again, given the complexity, we have perverse incentives that lead to bad science-information(remember 'Scientific Socialism'), which then given the complexity of the economy, lead to further bad economic policies and more bad science. 

6. The above is not the result of a "conspiracy"-"hoax" it too is "indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design". 

With the above in mind we continue. 

Global warming is over-hyped. Let’s assume that it is true that human beings are a new factor that increases the earth’s temperature in ways that have never happened before and that this increase in temperature is something that will have substantial detrimental effects in the future. The first thing we need to ask is, how fast is this happening? If we are doing it, it is obviously not happening fast enough to bring about a quick extinction to mankind. To my limited knowledge, even scientists who feel like we are bringing about detrimental climate changes, the drastic changes would be at least a couple of centuries away. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change(IPCC), surface temperature readings have increased about 1.1° F over the last 100 years. Let’s assume that this rate even increases threefold to 3 degrees every 100 years. That gives us 300 years to learn how to shape the world around us to our advantage given an average temperature that is 9 degrees higher than what it currently is. Even if we increase the temperature that much, it just means that the colder places like Greenland, northern Canada, and gigantic parts of northern Asia which were part of the former soviet union now become more fertile and better suited for human life.

A hotter planet does not necessarily mean a less hospitable one. Sure some habitats might get too hot and the life that currently exists there might diminish but new life will spring up in the new more hospitable areas. Life on this planet has endured countless of drastic environmental changes, as recently as our last ice age from 70,000 to 11,500 years ago Greenland’s surface temperature changed 15° F in just 10 years. Things like higher carbon dioxide levels which many feel are causing the global warming also help plants grow better.

As I write this book I am living in Miami, a place that would have been inhospitable to the millions who live here before the human ant-farm was able to easily transform the environment in a way that was hospitable to human life, by easily creating structures like buildings where there were only swamps before. And by far the most important of these transformations is air conditioning! Thanks to heating and air conditioning we can transform the environment so that many previously inhospitable places are now comfortable locations for us and I am sure that by the time the earth becomes an inferno we will have found it so easy to transform our environment to our liking that it wouldn’t be a problem at all, and that is assuming that it will become an inferno. It all comes down to this, based on my understanding of the market process and its ability to give an efficient and highly adaptable order to society, a fundamental piece of knowledge which is missing from virtually ALL so called experts in predicting the future conditions of mankind, I believe that our ability to transform the earth’s environment to our liking will easily outpace whatever truly negative impact we might be having on the environment. And just like our ability to find new sources of energy and ways of transforming matter increases faster than our thirst for them so will our ability to deal with whatever detrimental impact we might be causing before it becomes a serious nuisance.

Having briefly discussed the solution to our worst case scenario, let us come back to reality and focus on what is more likely the case: that things are nowhere near as bad as the so called “experts”-enviromorons-economorons like former vice president Al Gore suggest. As the great economist George Reisman writes:

>“Perhaps of even greater significance is the continuous and profound distrust of science and technology that the environmental movement displays. The environmental movement maintains that science and technology cannot be relied upon to build a safe atomic power plant, to produce a pesticide that is safe, or even to bake a loaf of bread that is safe, if that loaf of bread contains chemical preservatives. When it comes to global warming, however, it turns out there is one area in which the environmental movement displays the most breathtaking confidence in the reliability of science and technology, an area in which, until recently, no one—not even the staunchest supporters of science and technology—had ever thought to exert very much confidence at all. The one thing, the environmentalist movement holds, that science and technology can do so well that we are entitled to have unlimited confidence in them is forecast the weather—for the next 100 years! 

>It is after all, supposedly on the basis of a weather forecast that we are being asked to abandon the Industrial Revolution or, as it is euphemistically put, “to radically and profoundly change the way we live”—to our enormous material detriment.” (Reisman, p. 88)

If one understands that the progress of mankind is the cure for any global warming or 'climate change' concerns, it becomes obvious to see how the major economic bottlenecks that are proposed by environmentalists, who are even more ignorant of economics than the already ignorant politicians and public, are the biggest harm to the very environment they want to protect. Ignorance of the market process is by far the greatest threat to our supply of natural resources, 'climate change', and just about every other thing human beings need to prosper. It seems like most “experts” fall into the category of scientists who see things like predation in the biological world, and make the same mistake Marx made by comparing the biological predation to a nonexistent predation of the working class by the capitalists. And also the "constructivist" view that the economy needs ‘planning’. In that sense most scientists are as wrong as the public, they just think they are smarter because they can write about or compare this predation better than average folks. But just like so many experts were wrong about communism and unbelievably, the 20th century’s greatest economist, Ludwig von Mises, could not even get a paid position in the US as a professor, the mass of scientists are once again blind to how the market process will solve our environmental concerns. The easy to absorb and intuitively appealing yet erroneous ideas like communism, which spread so easily amongst the public, are once again drowning out the powerful truths expounded by the likes of Spencer, Menger, Mises, Hayek, Hazlitt, etc.