

Imagine you had a time machine and went back in time about 300 years to Salem, Massachusetts during the famed Salem witch trials where 19 women were hanged for witchcraft, and told people that the world could function much better if there was no slavery and it should be seen as an abomination, that women should have the same freedoms as men, that homosexuality should be tolerated and seen as part of homo sapiens, and that six million years ago we had a common ancestor with chimpanzees. People would see you as some devilish monstrosity spreading heretical-sinful ideas and quickly "conspire" to kill you. Even if you succeeded in persuading a few people, the rate at which your ideas could spread would likely be no match for the rate at which existing fallacies, myths and the "incentive structure" of slave owners, religious leaders and the "experts" of their day would lead to your death. Would this mean that the people of the time were bad-malicious-"evil"? Or members of some "vast conspiracy" of "bad guys" or "special interests" trying to 'take away your rights and freedoms'? Of course not. The people would be fellow homo sapiens acting based on the prevailing myths and incentive structures of the times. If you believed that they were dumb or malicious you'd be making a monumental error in your efforts to help them overcome existing myths. In this book we are going to attempt to do something similar, instead of going back in time to spread superior ideas, we are going to spread ideas which are currently ahead of our time and are needed to prevent homo sapiens' extinction and quickly get us on a path to prospetity. The ideas of a group of little-known and widely misunderstood evolutionary intellectuals often-times referred to as ‘The Austrian School of Economics’. And as their most famous intellectual, 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics, F.A. Hayek(1899–1992) writes, their vital insights and “fundamental ideas belong fully and wholly to Carl Menger[1840–1921]”. 



Consider the following two insightful quotes. Upton Sinclair mentions: “It is difficult to get a man to understand something, when his salary depends on his not understanding it.” 


 “People will forgive you for being wrong, but they will never forgive you for being right—especially if events prove you right while proving them wrong.”



Even if you didn't get killed, as the superior ideas spread they may end up doing far more harm than good. Perhaps their spread may lead to ultimately unsuccessful slave revolts, or a civil war that ends up making society more susceptible to conquest by an external power like the French or Spanish at the time. Thus the spread of superior ideas or truths can end up doing far, far more harm than good. Knowing the risks, would you attempt to spread the ideas? Would it be "immoral" for you not to try? How would you attempt to spread them? Had you succeeded, needless suffering and the cultural-intellectual changes that led to more freedom for any individual to live his or her life according to their plans instead of those of another (master, husband, church, government) could have happened much faster. The American Civil War and who knows how many other calamities and suffering could have been avoided. Something along these lines applies to this book and the dilemmas its authors face.  Spreading Spencer-Menger-Mises-Hayek-friends' ideas is similar to the above example, however, instead of attempting to explain today's mainstream superior ideas to tribalistic myth-following slightly smarter apes in the past, we take and apply ideas that are currently ahead of our time and attempt to spread them among today's dangerous slightly smarter apes, who as we will soon show, are as lost in mythology and dangerous as they were 300 years ago. If by our modern standards pretty much everything about how people saw the world 300 years ago could be rightly understood as mythology, why should we not be open to the idea that we are likewise immersed in mythology? 