
In August 10, 1915, British physicist Henry Mosely, who would have probably won the Nobel Prize that year, died in perhaps the most disastrous error mankind has thus far made, The First World War (1914–18). Bright and pious slightly smarter apes that had absorbed German-French-British-Russian “identities”… students, fathers, engineers, “great minds” and “experts”, who even shared a common European Christian faith, reverted to their tribal ape-like nature, and for God, honor, flag and country, slaughtered each other leading to about 18 million deaths and millions more left invalid (6.5 million just in France). At 7:30 am July 1st, 1916 the 'Battle of the Somme' began. On this single day, just the British alone, had about 20,000 fatalities and 35,000 wounded. On that day a British soldier was either killed or wounded on average every second. The "honor" of a military career would lead to disproportionately higher losses for the upper classes for all belligerents. Germany's top general, Erich Ludendorff would lose two sons, as would future British Prime Minister Andrew Bonar Law. British Prime Minister at the start of the war, Herbert Asquith, lost one. While about 12% of British troops would die in the war, 31% of Oxford's 1913 graduating class would die. This should help abolish the popular naive myth that politicians are quick to bring about wars while wanting to avoid personal loses in them. Nonsense unfortunately, human beings are slightly smarter apes that have been naturally selected to be vicious killers and to enjoy violence. Warfare-predation was an important evolutionary strategy and one of the reasons we are social and have evolved big brains to begin with. As Steven Pinker writes:

>"… men go to war to get or keep women –not necessarily as a conscious goal of the warriors(though often it is exactly that), but as the ultimate payoff that allowed a willingness to fight to evolve. Access to women is the limiting factor on male's reproductive success. Having two wives can double a man's children, having three wives can triple it, and so on. The most common spoils of tribal warfare are women. Raiders kill the men, abduct the nubile women, gang-rape them, and allocate them as wives." [( Steven Pinker's "How the Mind Works" 1999, p. 510)](https://books.google.com/books?id=5cXKQUh6bVQC&pg=PA510&lpg=PA510&dq=%22men+go+to+war+to+get+or+keep+women+%E2%80%93not+necessarily+as+a+conscious%22&source=bl&ots=4RwtAahW_K&sig=ACfU3U0IXRFzLuCSIqv5V30T72_P_PpzSQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwin-sGOwe7mAhVJoZ4KHbZ5BvAQ6AEwAHoECAkQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22men%20go%20to%20war%20to%20get%20or%20keep%20women%20%E2%80%93not%20necessarily%20as%20a%20conscious%22&f=false)

To be successful in war-hunt you need a strong sense of unity which translates itself into the strong tribalistic-nationalist-militaristic-patriotic tendencies we are so susceptible to and has the planet littered with nuclear weapons and "civilized" taxpayers believing we must have them. The bond men make as co-warriors may be stronger than male-female love. A female is easily replaceable (another raid, etc.) but the loss of that co-warrior that will help get the next female and-or defend you when you only get one chance at life is probably even more important. Just like natural selection has shaped us to enjoy sex due to the vital biological-evolutionary importance, it has also shaped us to enjoy war-violence and easily segregating ourselves into the in-group-us-"good" vs. out-group-them-"evil". Given its importance, war-patriotism easily fills us with a great sense of purpose. England's prime minister during World War Two and national hero Winston Churchill shows us how inspiring, exciting and purposeful World War One was to him when he mentioned:

>"I think a curse should rest on me - because I love this war. I know it's smashing and shattering the lives of thousands every moment - and yet - I can't help it - I enjoy every second of it." [(Churchill)](https://foreignpolicy.com/2009/02/25/churchills-advice/)

Chuchill wrote to his wife:

>“Everything tends towards catastrophe and collapse. I am interested, geared up and happy. Is it not horrible to be built like that?”

Churchill also told Prime Minister Asquith that his life’s ambition was:

>“to command great victorious armies in battle.” 

Churchill again:

>"My God! This is living History. Everything we are doing and saying is thrilling… Why I would not be out of this glorious delicious war for anything the world could give me…" [(Churchill, per Margot Asquith)](https://books.google.com/books?id=MzytDwAAQBAJ&pg=PT297&lpg=PT297&dq=%22My+God!+This+is+living+History.+Everything+we+are+doing+and+saying+is+thrilling%22&source=bl&ots=zYG1LaIeSU&sig=ACfU3U3RqPMPBYEmjxIkEd7kh_p8RBiKrw&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiiycmAr-7mAhWVoJ4KHSSzAQIQ6AEwAXoECAoQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22My%20God!%20This%20is%20living%20History.%20Everything%20we%20are%20doing%20and%20saying%20is%20thrilling%22&f=false)

Towards the end of WWII, Russia's Red Army is estimated to have raped over 2 million German women. Equally human, the Allies-Americans weren't much better and generally saw the Japanese as an inferior race and cared little for their suffering or views, as US president who needlessly nuked Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Harry S. Truman, mentions in a letter:

>"The only language they seem to understand is the one we have been using to bombard them. When you have to deal with a beast you have to treat him as a beast." [(Truman letter to Samuel McCrea Cavert, General Secretary of The Churches of Christ in America)](http://www.nuclearfiles.org/menu/library/correspondence/truman-harry/corr_truman_1945-08-11.htm)

We shouldn't be shocked when men murder, rape and torture, or masturbate to tentacle porn, the real miracle that has taken thousands of years of cultural-legal evolution to create, are the modern cultural values-laws-ideologies-software we absorb that program homo sapiens into respecting the body-property-thoughts of all human beings regardless of age, sex, beliefs, and race. Being the social slightly smarter apes that we are, fellow humans are our biggest assets which helps explain the evolution of altruism-compassion, as well as our biggest competitors which helps us understand our horrendous violence towards fellow men. During the early days in the lead-up to World War I there was an atmosphere of joy and excitement as thousands of young men celebrated and volunteered for the coming war which would bring unity, purpose, and glory. After the war, when much of Europe lay in ruins, many were numb and in a state of stupor wondering how they could have fooled themselves into such needless carnage. Why did this happen? And if it was such a big deal at the time, worth sacrificing so much, how come hardly anybody knows anything about it today? 20 years later via World War Two the tribalistic slaughter led to over 80 million deaths and what followed was a "Cold War" that brought the slightly smarter apes close to nuclear annihilation several times. Why were our "great leaders" and "intellectuals" utterly powerless to prevent the World War One and Two slaughters and were in fact its promoters? How can mankind today build mindbogglingly complex microchips, airplanes, satellites, the Internet and so much more, yet still not have figured out something as simple as peace and always be one spark away from another world-wide tribalistic tyrannical and chaotic calamity as CovidMania, the Russia-Ukraine war, and recurring financial crisis are showing? 

There is something missing from our understanding of how the world works, something as monumental in importance as Darwin's theory of evolution, something that our "leading intellectuals" and "experts" have yet to discover and spread accordingly. Fortunately for mankind that "something" has already been discovered and explained by a group of little-known and widely misunderstood evolutionary intellectuals often-times referred to as ‘The Austrian School of Economics’. And as 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics, F.A. Hayek(1899–1992) writes, their vital insights and “fundamental ideas belong fully and wholly to Carl Menger”[1840–1921].

Hayek provides a simple answer to the questions above. However, this answer can be a bit hard to swallow for the prideful slightly smarter apes, but swallow it we must if we are to survive the next World War One-like calamity which might very well result from the current Coronavirus-related economic shutdowns-policies, Israeli-Palestinian conflict, or Russia-Ukraine war, etc. The answer is the following: Human beings are slightly smarter vicious apes whose instincts are ideally suited to living in small tribes of less than 100 people but find themselves relatively lost in the modern socioeconomic order where things like money, profit-loss calculation, economic competition, and interest rates coordinate the actions of billions of human beings all over the world to create what the great British 19th century thinker Herbert Spencer referred to as ["The Social Organism"](https://oll.libertyfund.org/titles/spencer-the-man-versus-the-state-with-six-essays-on-government-society-and-freedom-lf-ed), which can also be seen as an incredibly complex movie-like-Matrix that did not exist 20,000 years ago. 

Tribal warfare, political infighting, coercing each other, rape, and 'The law of the jungle', are things we have been doing for millions of years and are somewhat intuitive, commercial society, the tolerance and wisdom needed to refrain from coercing others, and understanding the aforementioned economic concepts which have been around for less than a few thousand years, are not. Hayek summarizes:

>"...man’s instincts...were not made for the kinds of surroundings, and for the numbers, in which he now lives. They were adapted to life in the small roving bands or troops in which the human race and its immediate ancestors evolved during the few million years while the biological constitution of homo sapiens was being formed."
