

#### Racial IQ inferiority nonsense.


James Watson, co-discoverer of DNA’s structure, is a perfect example of how ignorance of economics and a whole lot more is deeply entrenched in the minds of many of the world’s top scientists. He recently took a lot of heat for making the following remarks.

>“there is no firm reason to anticipate that the intellectual capacities of peoples geographically separated in their evolution should prove to have evolved identically. Our wanting to reserve equal powers of reason as some universal heritage of humanity will not be enough to make it so.”

 
This is true. People of different races do have slightly different genes here and there which could lead to differences in mental capacity as well.

Some people might quickly reach the conclusion that people who are in tribal stages of social development must be dumber in some way, but this does not have to be true at all. For example, Jared Diamond in his bestselling book “Guns, Germs, and Steel” shows how Australian aboriginals were bound to be stuck in a tribal world because there simply weren’t any animals suitable for domestication that might have been as useful as things like cattle, and that the soil and plants in their environment were not conducive to farming. Moreover, the selective pressures that really shape our intelligence have come about by competing with fellow big-brained humans. People in a tribe have to learn language, communicate and compete with the selfish interests of all the other members in the tribe: lie here, join an alliance there, remember favors, plan some clever scheme to manipulate others to get what you want, etc. These sorts of calculations are the ones that really shaped our intelligence. One can actually make the case that people who live in tribes might even be smarter. People who live in modern market oriented societies can have very little social skills, learn how to do just a few things, and thanks to the tremendous productivity of the entire social order via the market process they can easily feed themselves, clothe themselves, reproduce and feed their offspring. A waitress can perform the same job for a lifetime, trade her labor for money, and the money for a computer with Internet access, use Google to figure out how to solve all kinds of problems. She can afford a car, modern medicine, all things that can greatly help her survive and reproduce. As previously mentioned, the modern human ant-farm can be seen as a robot or a tool that gets better with time and a larger population. A “dumb” person 100 years from now will be able to achieve a lot more than a “smart” person today. Although the tribal social order was a lot simpler compared to what we have today, there was still plenty to do and many people had to be jack-of-all-traders. A small number of trades compared to today, but a small number of brains too. You had to learn how to build the huts, simple tools, where to get materials, which ones were best. This is highly speculative but it is a simple point to keep in mind. As Hayek put it:

>“In civilized society it is indeed not so much the greater knowledge that the individual can acquire, as the greater benefit he receives from the knowledge possessed by others, which is the cause of his ability to pursue an infinitely wider range of ends than merely the satisfaction of his most pressing physical needs. Indeed, a ‘civilized’ individual may be very ignorant, more ignorant than many a savage, and yet greatly benefit from the civilization in which he lives.” (Hayek F. A., 1973, p. 14)

Back to Dr. Watson. He also said that he is “inherently gloomy about the prospect of Africa” because “all our social policies are based on the fact that their intelligence is the same as ours – whereas all the testing says not really”. This is where the great mistakes begin to occur and sort of reminds me of the kind of mindset that evolved to play a leading role in Nazi Germany. First of all, as already repeated over and over, it is not individual intelligence that creates socioeconomic prosperity, it is the ability of the market process to combine human intelligence(smart or dumb) into a new type of collective intelligence. Even if it were true that Africans were not as smart as whites, this would not be the main reason why societies with larger white populations are more prosperous than Africans. Again, it is the economic system that really brings prosperity, not individual human intelligence. It is as if the market process can add up the IQs of people so that you are better off with 5 brains with IQs of 100 for a total of 500 “intelligence points”, than you are with 4 brains of 115 IQ for 460 intelligence points. But Dr. Watson, and most scientists have no understanding of what the market process is. They are stuck looking for answers in their tiny world of genes and believe that the answers to most things somehow have to be found there, especially those things that are largely shaped by the market process and cultural evolution. Since they do not understand these concepts they are limited to using the same sort of genetic hammer to stomp every nail.

Second is that IQ related testing is dubious at best. As Dr. Sowell explains:

>“Like fertility rates, IQ scores differ substantially among ethnic groups at a given time, and have changed substantially over time—reshuffling the relative standings of the groups. As of about World War I, Jews scored sufficiently low on mental tests to cause a leading “expert” of that era to claim that the test score results “disprove the popular belief that the Jew is highly intelligent.” At the same time, IQ scores for many of the other more recently arrived groups—Italians, Greeks, Poles, Portuguese, and Slovaks—were virtually identical to those found today among blacks, Hispanics, and other disadvantaged groups. However, over the succeeding decades, as most of these immigrant groups became more acculturated and advanced socioeconomically, their IQ scores have risen by substantial amounts. Jewish IQs were already above the national average by the 1920s, and recent studies of Italian and Polish IQs show them to have reached or passed the national average in the post-World War II era. Polish IQs, which averaged eighty-five in the earlier studies—the same as that of blacks today—had risen to 109 by the 1970s. This twenty-four-point increase in two generations is greater than the current black-white difference(fifteen points).” (Sowell, pp. 8-9)

If IQs can change so much with socioeconomic achievement it does not tell us much about differences in mental capacity, and again, whatever differences might exist are insignificant compared to what really matters, the way the economy works. And why is it that if black people supposedly have lower IQs do why they excel in music, comedy and so much more?  Don’t these activities require great minds? The bottom line is that when one looks at people bringing up IQ stuff or arguments about prosperity based on human traits, you are usually dealing with someone who has little understanding of the fact that whatever slight biological differences might exists between peoples of different populations are insignificant compared to how freedom and the market process creates a prosperous social order.

Let us also assume the “worst”, let’s make the ridiculous assumption that only super smart Ashkenazi Jews can do certain things and they are highly paid for it. Let us quote Mises' great pupil George Reisman:

>“If two people both want to be an automotive engineer, and the better qualified succeeds, while the less qualified ends up as an auto mechanic, the better qualified one can raise the productivity of the poorer-qualified one by designing a better car for him to work on. If their positions were reversed, this would not be possible.” (Reisman, p. 357)

 
As a less intelligent lowly Cuban (I do share 0.4% of some genes with Ashkenazi Jews according to 23andme by the way), fortunately I, just like everyone in the planet, have enough intelligence to understand how it is in my best interest to have whoever is more able be free to lives their lives to the fullest. Again!!!! Preaching an understanding of economics is the key.


