
#### World War One. The intensification of Jewish-Nazi hatreds. The beginning, escalation, and ramifications of WWII.

Let us once again remind ourselves of a simple and obvious idea upon which the future of human civilization may depend on, that no matter how "evil"-disastrous-cruel the actions of particular fellow slightly smarter apes are, we must focus on those sequences of thoughts and incentives intertwined with a human nature we all share to understand why they act the way they do free of any mysticism (Evil) or pseudoscience (mad). Again, how could the lands of Mozart, Bach, Beethoven, Kant, Mises and Hayek be seen as the evil “Huns” in World War One and then take "evil" to a whole new level by allegedly becoming zombie-like under the spell of "Hitler" and maniacally attempt to conquer Europe and exterminate the Jews? If you travel through Europe or ask enough friends, the German-speaking people are oftentimes considered among the most honest and hard-working. How did this happen? When we look at mainstream documentaries about World War Two, Germans at the time, and especially Hitler, there is always a nearly-religious-like aura to them. There is this "evil" or "madness" out there, and somehow it spreads and manifests itself in Hitler and somehow it managed to persuade-brainwash such cultured people into being the "evil" Nazis. Well, this is obviously slightly smarter ape mythological bullshit. Hitler and the "Nazis" were neither "evil" since that does not even exist, nor mad obviously. They were fellow homo sapiens who due to complex evolutionary factors for which nobody is to blame absorbed horrendous ideas. For very understandable reasons, this worldview-mythology affects "Jewish identity" tremendously. We have to be aware of the unfortunate fact that since Jews have always been an often-times persecuted minority, the "good" vs. "evil", the "there is evil out there and we are the canary in the coalmine" mentality is understandably pervasive in their "identity". So just like economic ignorance can lead to antisemitism, antisemitism can then cause Jews to have a dangerous mythical-vilifying response-reaction. With both, antisemitism, and the reaction, spiraling out of control as happened in World War Two and the current Israeli(Zionism)-Palestinian conflict and all that grows from it like the Russia-Ukraine war.

Since the concept of "evil" is essentially a mythical concept we have inherited from pre-darwin days, it is important that we look at how fellow slightly smarter apes (Jews and Nazis) brainwashed themselves into such intensifying hatreds which eventually played the leading role in bringing about World War Two, the Holocaust, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and all that grows from it.

We pick things up towards the end of World War One. The Germans were greatly persuaded to put down their arms thanks to the good will displayed by American president Woodrow Wilson and his “Fourteen Points” as delivered in a speech to Congress on Jan 8th 1918. One month later he would follow up with his “Four Principles” speech where he said the following:

>“There shall be no contributions, no punitive damages. People are not to be handed about from one sovereignty to another by an international conference… National aspirations must be respected; peoples may now be dominated and governed only by their own consent. “Self-Determination” is not a mere phrase… All the parties to this war must join in the settlement of every issue anywhere involved in it… Every territorial settlement involved in this war must be made in the interest and for the benefit of the populations concerned, and not as a part of any mere adjustment or compromise of claims amongst rival states” (Link, pp. 321-3)

Unfortunately for the Germans and millions who put their faith in Woodrow Wilson, little of Wilson’s words would hold true. With respect to a British hunger blockade that remained in place 6 months after the Germans stopped fighting Prof. Raico writes:

>“Yet the hunger blockade continued, and was even expanded, as the Allies gained control of the German Baltic coast and banned even fishing boats. The point was reached where General Herbert Plumer, commander of the British army of occupation, demanded of London that food be sent to the famished Germans. His troops could no longer stand the sight of “hordes of skinny and bloated children pawning over the offal from British cantonments.” (Denson, p. 240)

A letter by Plumer which was read to US President Wilson, French Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau, and British Prime Minister David Lloyd George while they were in Paris, four months after the armistice, snobbishly deciding how to punish the German people by drawing up what would become the Treaty of Versailles, read as follows:

>“Please inform the Prime Minister that in my opinion food must be sent to this area by the Allies without delay…. The mortality amongst women, children, and sick is most grave and sickness due to hunger is spreading. The attitude of the population is becoming one of despair, and the people feel that an end by bullets is preferable to death by starvation”

Nearly four months after the Germans put down their weapons, on March 3rd, 1919 Winston Churchill, who was the 'First Lord of the Admiralty' and commanded the British Navy, told to the House of Commons that:

“We are enforcing the blockade with rigour…Germany is very near starvation. The evidence I have received from officers sent by the War Office all over Germany shows, first of all, the great privations which the German people are suffering, and secondly, the danger of collapse of the entire structure of German social and national life under the pressure of hunger and malnutrition. Now is, therefore, the moment to settle. To delay indefinitely would be to run a grave risk of having nobody with whom to settle, and of having another great area of the world sink into Bolshevik anarchy. That would be a very grave event… It is repugnant to the British nation to use this weapon of starvation –which falls mainly upon the women and children, upon the old, the weak, and the poor, after all the fighting has stopped– one  moment longer than is necessary to secure the just terms for which we have fought.” (James, p. 2684) 

The most objectionable section of the treaty, Article 231, placed all the blame for the war on the German public and would be the basis for attempting to force the Germans to pay for “all the loss and damage” of the war, essentially partially enslaving the population for several generations.  Besides having to pay for all war related damages, 6 to 7 million Germans, about 10% of the population, would find themselves ruled by foreign governments as various sections of Germany were being sliced off. These minorities would understandably be harassed. Alsace and Lorraine went back to French control; over three million ethnic Germans living in the Sudetenland, which was part of the now defunct Austro-Hungarian Empire, would become a minority in the newly created country of Czechoslovakia. The city of Danzig (along with East Prussia) whose population was 95% German was made a ‘free city’ under the auspices of the ‘League of Nations’ and cut off from the rest of Germany by the “Polish Corridor” which was a segment of land given to a recreated Poland so that it would have direct access to the sea. Since 1795 what used to be the ‘Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth’ had been absorbed by nearby Prussia, Russia and Austro-Hungary. The recreated Poland would now have nearly a million Germans as minorities as well as millions of Ukrainians. Ill treatment of these Germans by the Poles and the desire to reunite these Germans with Germany would eventually trigger Hitler’s invasion of Poland. The Rhineland (German territory on its western frontier) was to become a demilitarized zone administered by France and England. Germany was also essentially disarmed by being limited to an army of 100,000 troops. Germany’s railroad network, so crucial for trade-production would be gutted by giving up 5,000 locomotives and 150,000 railway cars… and much more.

American legal expert James Brown Scott who was a member of the American delegation had a much better understanding of what was being committed and prophetically commented that “The statesmen have… made a peace that renders another war inevitable.” David Lloyd George on another occasion mentioned that, “We shall have to do the whole thing over again in twenty five years… at three times the cost.” Wilson’s close aid, Colonel Edward M. House commented in his diary that “The Treaty is not a good one, it is too severe… I desired from the beginning a fair peace, and one well within the Fourteen points, and one that could withstand the scrutiny of the neutral world and of all time. It is not such a peace.” 

When French Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau handed German foreign minister Ulrich von Brockdorff-Rantzau the terms of the peace on May 7th 1919, Ulrich replied:

>“We can feel all the power of hate we must encounter in this assembly… It is demanded of us that we admit ourselves to be the only ones guilty of this war. Such a confession in my mouth would be a lie. We are far from declining any responsibility for this great world war… but we deny that Germany and its people were alone guilty. The hundreds of thousands of non-combatants who have perished since 11 November by reason of the blockade were killed with cold blood after our adversaries had conquered and victory had been assured to them. Think of that when you speak of guilt and punishment.”

Upon hearing this, the pomposity of the allied leaders was on full display. Clemenceau was furious. Wilson exclaimed “What abominable manners… the Germans are really a stupid people. They always do the wrong thing.” (Johnson, 2001, p. 26) And British Foreign Secretary Lord Balfour said “Beasts they were, and beasts they are.” (Odorfer, p. 292)

Faced with these and other conditions Germany’s first democratically elected Chancellor, Philipp Scheidemann, refused to sign the treaty and resigned, but with the continued hunger blockade and communists revolutionaries gaining increasing control of Germany, the next German delegation finally agreed to the terms. Just like the chaos brought about by World War One helped bring Communism to Russia, it came close to doing the same thing in Germany. For example, On November 7, 1918, just three days before the end of fighting via the signing of the armistice on November 11, Kurt Eisner (a Jew) led a peaceful revolution which led to the brief existence of a socialist state in Bavaria (Munich being the capital). Eisner distanced himself from the Russian Communists-Bolsheviks and wanted his government to somehow respect private property, but unfortunately after his assassination and a few changes in government, by April 12, 1919 a more hard-core Communist Party headed by Eugen Leviné (another Jew) with direct ties to Lenin took over power and immediately began expropriating property, factories, etc. At the suggestion of Lenin, on April 30th Leviné had eight men who were prominent members of society (evil capitalists for sure) shot to help show he meant business. Levine’s short-lived communist government was ended by the Freikorps which were militias mostly made up of army volunteers who for a myriad of reasons were opposed to a Communist takeover of their country, especially one that was orchestrated from Russia and had such a high overrepresentation of Jews in their leadership. Earlier in Berlin too, Marxist Jews Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht had led another short-lived Communist government. Near the same time on March 21st, 1919 Hungary became the second country after Russia to establish a Russian-backed Communist government led by yet another Jew, Bela Kun. The overrepresentation of Jews in the various Communist uprisings-movements had a profound effect in associating the two for Hitler and countless others. Hitler was in Munich during the short-lived Bavarian socialist republic. He would eventually make friends with many Freikorps members and develop his own brand of Socialism.

That obviously "crazy and evil" Joseph Goebbels in a June 24th 1939 article titled “Children With Their Hands Chopped Off” summarizes much of the German attitude about the British anti-German propaganda and how they felt deceived at the end of WWI:

>“The war caught Germany entirely by surprise, proof that we had not wanted it. Then England got moving. English propaganda turned the whole world against us. One had not thought them capable of it. The experts found its planning and execution brilliant. English propaganda was limited to a few powerful slogans. With devilish depravity, they were spread systematically throughout the entire world and pounded into the brains of millions of people. At the end, they were helpless victims of mass hypnosis.

>There were really only a few slogans that the English spread throughout the world. They spoke of children’s hands chopped off, eyes poked out, women raped, and old people tortured.

>Long years of anti-German propaganda campaign persuaded the whole world that Germany was a nation of barbarians, uncivilized and inhumane, and that it was the moral and cultural obligation of the rest of the earth to destroy Germany and to break its power. Only then could the world know peace and friendship. That made it easy for the rest of the world to join England in fighting Germany.

>We Germans had no idea how to respond. We watched the English campaign with honest stupidity. The good German citizen shook his head and wondered how anyone could lie like that. We suffered the consequences at the end of the war. During the last months of the war, England attempted to hammer into the minds of the German population the idea that it was fighting our government, not us. The English did not want to hurt the German people, their war propaganda said. The Kaiser had to go. Then the European nations could end the war.

>American President Wilson proclaimed his well-known Fourteen Points. In brief, they announced that the Allies did not want to force peace on the Germans, that none of the warring countries should have to pay reparations, or be otherwise harmed, or lose national honor or territory. The Allies’ only demand was to replace the Kaiser with a republic, after which peace with honor would follow for everyone.

>These stupid lies were brewed by the English. Wilson was simply the Foreign Office’s loudspeaker. And good old Germany believed what England got the Americans to say. We fell into the trap. We did everything that England wanted, and had to pay the bill in the end.”


The humiliation, terms of the treaty, and reparations payments imposed on a war-torn economy would rightly be seen by Germans as one of the main reasons for their economic troubles. Princeton University Professor of Economics Frank D. Graham commenting on the reparations situation wrote that:

>“The history of reparations till the adoption of the Dawes Plan in 1924 is an almost incredible tale of stupid persecution...The Allies began by demanding the impossible and they capriciously imposed sanctions when the impossible was not performed.” (Graham, p. 30)

Unhappy with Germany’s efforts to pay reparations (Germans were defaulting on timber and coal shipments) French and Belgian troops occupied the Ruhr from 1923 to 1925 to extract payment by force. In the city of Essen, French soldiers shot 14 men who were trying to oppose some seizures. By French orders 80,000 workers had to leave the Ruhr region (Schultze-Rhonhof, p. 78). The initial occupation of the Ruhr coincided with the latter stages of Germany’s famous bout of hyperinflation where something that could be purchased with one German mark in July 1914 would cost 726,000,000,000 marks in Nov 1923. At times prices doubled every 49 hours. This occupation and economic chaos made it even easier for the Germans to increase their hatred towards the occupiers. The hyperinflation and economic troubles facing Germany should not be blamed entirely on the reparations, although reparations were a major economic hindrance. If post-war Germany had low taxes and few regulations, in other words, if it had freedom-capitalism, it would have been able to make the payments and quickly grow in prosperity, but this was not to be the case. Some form of socialist ideology was the tune of the day throughout all of Europe and the inevitable strains in the government finances led to the central bank attempting to please everyone by printing more money at inevitably increasing rates. Graham again writes that:

>"The Reichsbank was finally reduced to making apologies for its inability to provide for a weekly output of more than several billion (or trillion) of marks of the required denomination and to an expression of its hope that this situation would be quickly remedied by an improvement in the speed of the printing presses! The printing presses did their bit. By the end of inflation the daily output of currency was over 400,000,000,000,000,000 marks.” [("Exchange, Prices, and Production in Hyper-inflation: Germany, 1920-1923", Graham, p. 35)](https://books.google.com/books?id=BF0x7c6IREkC&pg=PA35&lpg=PA35&dq=%22The+Reichsbank+was+finally+reduced+to+making+apologies+for+its+inability+to+provide+for+a+weekly+output+of+more%22&source=bl&ots=n8jWETIMGl&sig=ACfU3U1KkDsCtFmxv98YG9lebSq33W_y2A&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiKzIb69ffoAhVPoZ4KHQEnBBgQ6AEwAHoECAYQKQ#v=onepage&q=%22The%20Reichsbank%20was%20finally%20reduced%20to%20making%20apologies%20for%20its%20inability%20to%20provide%20for%20a%20weekly%20output%20of%20more%22&f=false)




