
##### Iran: not really the epicenter of evil.


In large part thanks to the ramifications of Jew-Gentile frictions we have been documenting Iran is now seen as the sort of epicenter of evil in much of the Western World, and people like Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu treat Iran and its former president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, as being analogous to Germany and Hitler in the late 1930s prior to launching Europe into war and eventually leading to the Holocaust. Netanyahu mentioned in November 2006 that:

>“It’s 1938 and Iran is Germany. And Iran is racing to arm itself with atomic bombs…Israel would certainly be the first stop on Iran’s tour of destruction, but at the planned production rate of 25 nuclear bombs a year ... [the arsenal] will be directed against ‘the big Satan,’ the U.S., and the ‘moderate Satan,’ Europe… Iran is developing ballistic missiles that would reach America, and now they prepare missiles with an adequate range to cover the whole of Europe”

Thanks to statements like this and the islamophobia that plagues the U.S. Ahmadinejad is portrayed as some crazy evil madman and is often times accused of saying that he wanted to ‘wipe Israel of the map’ giving the impression that he wanted to sort of nuke the country or kill everyone there, an impression readily absorbed by the gullible and islamophobic U.S. public, especially the so-called ‘evangelical Christians’ who play an important role in the Republican Party as just described. Well, Ahmadinejad never said such a thing, it was a mistranslation; see (Cook, 2008, p. 77) for more details. Ahmadinejad is also portrayed as making the ultimate sin, that of questioning the standard Holocaust narrative. In 2006 Iran held an “International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust” which was exactly what the title implies, a conference to review the “Global Vision of the Holocaust”. Some people, especially in the Islamic world, quite understandably want to verify and discuss the official story to see if perhaps it has been exaggerated for political or financial gain. Iran’s Holocaust Revisionist-denial attitude is a little-known–yet-tremendously-important reason why Israel and people like Netanyahu are so virulently against Iran.

As of late 2015 there is no evidence that Iran is working towards a nuclear bomb according to both American and Israeli intelligence agencies. This did not stop Netanyahu from lying in a speech given to the United Nations in 2012 stating that Iran was a year away from making nuclear bombs. Iran makes itself available for nuclear inspections and is a member of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (which Israel, which does have nuclear weapons, refuses to join). Iran’s supreme religious leader, Ayatollah Khamenei, has issued a fatwa, or religious edict, against the acquisition of nuclear weapons which he considers to be forbidden under Islam. If the Iranian regime really were anything like pre-war Germany it would have expelled its 25,000+ thousand Jews which is the largest Jewish population of any Muslim country. Khamenei’s predecessor and leader of the Iranian/Islamic Revolution of 1979, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, issued a fatwa as he rose to power declaring Jews to be a protected minority. Khomeini might have had a virulent hatred of the Israeli State and Zionism, a hatred which is a prominent feature of Iranian politics, but he respected the religious freedom of Jews and Christians who are after all followers of legitimate prophets and recognized and protected under Islam. Jews’ and Christians’ religious freedoms are protected by the Iranian constitution (Article 13) and are allocated seats in the Iranian Parliament. There are 20 synagogues just in Iran’s capital, Tehran. Compare Iran, a country in Bush’s famous ‘Axis of evil’ to one of America’s supposedly great political allies in the Middle East, Saudi Arabia. In Saudi Arabia Judaism and Christianity are outlawed, there are no churches or synagogues there, and anyone caught publicly practicing such faiths can be in big trouble with the law. People are allowed to practice their religion in private though. 15 out of the 19 September 11 hijackers were from Saudi Arabia and so was Osama bin Laden. Not surprisingly, according to wiki-leaked State Department memos Secretary of State Hillary Clinton stated that “Donors in Saudi Arabia constitute the most significant source of funding to Sunni terrorist groups worldwide.”

Iran, like any country, has its many politicians with various degrees of influence, I am sure that many of them would like to pursue a nuclear bomb and perhaps they are. So what!? Pakistan has a nuclear bomb and it is probably a more unstable place. We should not forget that the US has already needlessly dropped two atomic bombs and has been close to using them again. For example, during the Vietnam War, President Nixon mentioned to then Secretary of State Henry Kissinger that “I’d rather use the nuclear bomb” and “The only place where you and I disagree ... is with regard to the bombing…You’re so goddamned concerned about the civilians and I don’t give a damn. I don’t care.” For 15 years during the Cold War the “secret” nuclear missile launch codes for American nukes was 00000000. In 2014, 34 nuclear missile launch officers have been implicated in a cheating scandal and have been stripped of their certification. It is already incredibly dangerous that a monopolistic and thus inevitably inefficient, tribal-minded bureaucracy like the US military has nuclear weapons.

Besides American support of Israel, Iran has its own more personal and legitimate reasons for fear and dislike of the United States government. Like with many peoples in the Middle East, the US was once seen very favorably in Iran because it had fought off the colonialist British rule which at some point ruled and exploited many in the region. For example, from 1848 to 1896 Iran was ruled by the monarch Nasser al-Din Shah who had a harem of over 1,600 women and after the usual attempts to suck more wealth from his people via higher taxes, etc. he began selling exclusive rights-concessions to do certain businesses in Iran to foreigners. As Stephen Kinzer describes in his great book “All the Shah's Men: An American Coup and the Roots of Middle East Terror”:

>“French, German, and Austrian groups bought a variety of other concessions. A German-born British subject, Baron Julius de Reuter, of news agency fame, won the most breathtaking one of all. In 1872, for a paltry sum and a promise of future royalties, he acquired the exclusive right to run the country’s industries, irrigate its farmland, exploit its mineral resources, develop its railroad and streetcar lines, establish its national bank, and print its currency. Lord Curzon described this as “the most complete and extraordinary surrender of the entire industrial resources of a kingdom into foreign hands that has probably ever been dreamt of, much less accomplished, in history.”

>Many were angered by the extreme one-sidedness of the Reuter concession. Iranian patriots, of whom there were already quite a number, were naturally outraged. So were merchants and businessmen, who saw their opportunities suddenly snatched away from them…Finally, Nasir al-Din Shah realized that he had overstepped the limits of the possible, and he revoked the concession less than a year after granting it.” (Kinzer, 2011, p. 679)

 
In 1901 another concession was sold to London-based financier William Knox D’Arcy granting the “special and exclusive privilege to obtain, exploit, develop, render suitable for trade, carry away and sell natural gas [and] petroleum … for a term of sixty years.” And required that only 16% of profits be given to Iranian government. This concession eventually became part of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company and then in 1913, Winston Churchill, who was then First Lord of the Admiralty, essentially nationalized the company by buying 51% of it. Churchill called it “a prize from fairyland beyond our wildest dreams.” (Kinzer, 2011, p. 836/6082)

More from Kinzer’s book:

>“Realizing the immense value of this new resource, the British in 1919 imposed the harsh Anglo-Persian Agreement on Ahmad Shah’s impotent regime, assuring its approval by bribing the Iranian negotiators. Under its provisions the British assumed control over Iran’s army, treasury, transport system, and communications network. To secure their new power, they imposed martial law and began ruling by fiat.” (Kinzer, p. 835/6082)


Fast forward to 1951 when Mohammad Mosaddegh becomes the democratically elected Prime Minister of Iran. The Iranians learned that the Arabian-American Oil Company(Aramco) which did business with Saudi Arabia had a 50% revenue sharing agreement with that country and the popular outcry against the “prize from fairyland” and the history of British meddling in the country is consuming the nation. After various negotiations with the British failed to reach a new agreement, the Iranian parliament unanimously voted to nationalize the oil industry (the British had recently nationalized their own coal industry as Mosaddegh would point out). The Iranians were more than willing to pay the British for the costs of their facilities, but the British would have none of it, the British “made more profit in 1950 alone than it had paid Iran in royalties over the previous half century.” (Kinzer, 2006, p. 117)  Naturally the British are now upset and want to remedy the situation and asked American president Harry Truman for help, but Truman “sympathized viscerally with nationalist movements like the one Mossadegh led. He had nothing but contempt for old-style imperialists like those who ran Anglo-Iranian. Besides, the CIA had never overthrown a government, and Truman did not wish to set a precedent.” (Kinzer, 2011, p. 129/6082) Luckily for the British, Truman’s presidency ended and Eisenhower became the new American president. Even though Mosaddegh was not a communist and Eisenhower and his administration knew this, the British and various American high ranking officials managed to get Eisenhower to go along with a coup based on the premise that they could not risk Iran potentially falling to communism and things would be a lot better if they had a more amicable puppet in power. So they organized a coup and installed Mohammad Reza Pahlavi as new ruler(Shah). Political dissent would be crushed by Iran’s Organization of Intelligence and National Security, also known as SAVAK.

As journalist Eric Margolis describes:

>“Savak, the vastly powerful security agency, imposed a reign of terror on Iran. American and Israeli experts advised and taught Savak. Real and imagined opponents of the Shah, the Shia clergy, and leftists all fell victim to Savak, whose tortures and brutalities were legendary, even by brutal Mideast standards.”


The Shah’s economic regime, perhaps following some advice from inept Keynesian American economic advisors, was the usual mixture of inflationary easy credit, bureaucratic and anti-competitive public-private sector partnerships, which ultimately led to lots of wealth for the politically connected and little for the rest and rising prices. The Shah was increasingly seen by the Iranian public as someone who wanted to turn Iran into another European country, as someone who felt like Iranian culture was backward or uncivilized, he defended his heavy handed tactics with statements like “when Iranians learn to behave like Swedes, I will behave like the King of Sweden”. The Shah believed that he was destined to be some great leader; he believed that he had some mystical connection with Persian rules of the past like Cyrus the Great. He waited 26 years into his rule to have a lavish crowning ceremony because “no honor in being Emperor of a poor country”. The Shah’s pomposity, repression of political dissent, and other factors like his close ties with the Israeli government and lack of support for the Palestinians, eventually led to a popular uprising which brought Ruhollah Khomeini to power in 1979. Many Iranians quite understandably wanted the Shah to face justice for his political oppression and other potential crimes but the US offered him sanctuary while getting medical treatment for cancer. This was the main factor leading to Iranian students storming the US embassy in Iran and holding 52 people hostage for over a year.

The US also helped Saddam Hussein invade Iran during an exhausting eight year war(1980-88. The famous handshake between Saddam Hussein and Donald Rumsfeld comes to mind. During this war Iraq would use US-supplied chemical weapons like mustard gas, not just against Iranian troops but also against civilians. Just like he would do with nuclear weapons research, Iranian leader Khomeini would refuse to explore the possibility of using chemical weapons in retaliation even while being encouraged by some of his generals.  On July 3rd 1988 the U.S. Navy’s USS Vincennes shot down Iranian commercial flight IR655 killing all 290 passengers claiming it had mistaken the giant and slumbering plane for an F-14 fighter jet. Millions of dollars in technology were no match for the crew’s incompetence and the gun-ho attitude of its captain, William C. Rogers. Captain David Carlson, in charge of the nearby USS Sides which had had no problems identifying the true identity of the plane said that the incident “marked the horrifying climax to Captain Rogers’ aggressiveness” The U.S. government never admitted any wrongdoing nor officially apologized for the incident, a law suit brought via the International Court of Justice did get the U.S. Gov. to pay money to the families of the victims.

The US, thanks to relentless Israeli lobbying, imposes increasingly harsher sanctions on Iran which help damage the entire economy to the detriment of all Iranians, US warships constantly roam nearby waters, the U.S. supports and arms Iran’s potential regional adversaries and has military bases all over the region. Iranian politicians and religious leaders know that American and Israeli ideologues are looking for any excuse to attack their country and attempt some wonderful social transformation like they attempted in Iraq and thus have little incentive to want to do anything that can give the US and Israel the excuse they are looking for.

Iran is far from being as free as Western democracies might be used to, but the bottom line is that it is far from being anything like what Benjamin Netanyahu and many hawkish U.S. politicians portray, and certainly not like Nazi Germany. Iran and its leadership simply refuse to recognize the State of Israel as a legitimate government and hate the Zionist ideology and politicians which were responsible for it and continue to inevitably oppress the Palestinians. This might not be ‘nice’ but again, it is far from the sort of demonic evil that is currently used to portray Iran. When one actually pays attention to what the Iranian leader Ali Khamenei has proposed as a solution to the Israeli/Palestinian conflict, although draconian, it is far from the ‘annihilation of Jews’ talk one hears from Israeli politicians and their American counterparts. In his twitter site Khamenei proposes a referendum where the original inhabitants Moslem, Christians, and Jews, wherever they are in the world, decide to what extent the Jews that came and expropriated land by force should be allowed to stay or go back to their native countries. The Khamenei solution is:

>“…The only means of bringing Israeli crimes to an end is the elimination of this regime. And of course the elimination of Israel does not mean the massacre of the Jewish people in this region…All of the original people of Palestine including Muslims, Christians and Jews wherever they are, whether inside of Palestine, in refugee camps in other countries or just anywhere else, take part in a public and organized referendum. Naturally the Jewish immigrants who have been persuaded into emigration to Palestine do not have the right to take part in this referendum….This is a fair and logical plan that can be properly understood by global public opinion and can enjoy the supports of the independent nations and governments. Certainly we do not expect the usurper Zionists to easily surrender to this proposal and this is where the role of governments, nations and organization of resistance is shaped and defined….We recommend neither a classical war by the army of Muslim countries nor to throw migrated Jews at sea and certainly not an arbitration by UN or other international organizations….”

Khamenei is not even mandating that the Jews that came after WWI leave, he is saying that the original inhabitants and their descendants decide to what extent and under what conditions they can stay. This is still a potentially draconian solution for sure and I believe that a much better solution will emerge, but it is important to note that this is far from a desire to kill all the Jews-etc. which the media always portrays Iranian leaders as seeking to achieve. It is simply a very though justice, from a particular perspective. It should also be noted that the much maligned Iranian leader Ali Khamenei’s common chants of “Death to America” are, in his own words, “The aim of the slogan means death to U.S. policies and arrogance" and not maniacal desire to kill all Americans the media portrays. Also as draconian as this solution might seem, it is incomparable to the fate of the 10 or so million Germans that were expelled from their ancestral homes in Eastern Europe at the end of WWII when nobody had a legitimate claim to their land.

However, again, there is no one to blame. The Jews-Israelis are understandably fixated on the awful antisemitic tropes countless Islamic leaders and scholars say, so the 'Jewish Identity' 'echo chamber' which justifies how they see things and what they do is also understandable. Again, Khamenei mentioning that:

>"The Western powers are a mafia. The reality of this power is a mafia. At the top of this mafia stand the prominent Zionist merchants, and the politicians obey them. The US is their showcase, and they’re spread out everywhere."

Is an intellectual error which helps evolve the above errors. Referring to Socialists-Communists as malicious instead of economically misguided did immense harm and the Iranian government's constant vilification of the Zionists is likewise doing immense harm. 
