

#### World War Two begins and escalates towards total slaughter.


The most important issue that led to the war was Hitler's reasonable desire to reunite via some railroads and further economic integrations the German city of Danzig(95+% German population and in overwhelming support of reunification) which had been cut off from Germany and made a sort of island overseen by Poland. The reasonableness of Hitler's demands was shared by many prominent Western leaders like former US President Herbert Hoover who criticized the Roosevelt administration for encouraging the Poles to ignore Hitler's legitimate requests. Hoover writes:

>"Another action by Mr. Roosevelt was his influence upon the Poles not to negotiate the question of Danzig. The adamant attitude of the Poles against negotiations received support from the Washington Administration. The separation of the German city of Danzig from Germany, and the size of the Corridor at the time of the part Treaty of Versailles had long been a cause of agitation by the Germans. Both were a part of vengeance and there was merit in the German claims. [I had stated at one time that they should be corrected."](https://books.google.com/books?id=ugFyjRLHPzcC&pg=PT264&lpg=PT264&dq=%22Both+were+a+part+of+vengeance+and+there+was+merit+in+the+German+claims.+I+had+stated+at+one+time+that+they+should+be+corrected.&source=bl&ots=D8uixbrmaY&sig=ACfU3U01JzEYnEht8-U0Qw9VosNrjyhdPQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjE4vWvzvHsAhWniOAKHW-NC-0Q6AEwAHoECAgQAg#v=onepage&q=%22Both%20were%20a%20part%20of%20vengeance%20and%20there%20was%20merit%20in%20the%20German%20claims.%20I%20had%20stated%20at%20one%20time%20that%20they%20should%20be%20corrected.&f=false)


With increasing ill-treatment of the Danzigers at the hands of the polish authorities, who thanks to recently-acquired defense guarantees by England and France could increase their jingoism and negligence of Hitler's legitimate concerns, Hitler finally invaded Poland on Sept. 1, 1939. Hitler had used potential military means to re-unite the 3+ million Sudeten Germans that had been made minorities living in Czechoslovakia and he had also united Austria. Very reasonable things which had the overwhelming support of Germans and reasonable-non-jingoistic politicians. Again, the reasonableness of Hitler’s demands was shared by many prominent Western leaders and was well captured by British ambassador in Berlin, Neville Henderson, in a letter to Sir Horace Wilson who was British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain’s close advisor. Henderson wrote to Wilson:

>“I regard Hitler’s proposals as a fair basis of negotiation and in my innermost heart I regard the Poles as exceedingly unwise to make enemies of Germany and as dangerous allies for us. I am personally convinced that there can be no permanent peace in Europe until Danzig has reverted to Germany. The Poles cannot be masters of 400,000 Germans in Danzig – ergo Germany must be. I fear that we are again on a bad wicket as we were over the Sudeten.”

In a speech before the Reichstag in April 28, 1939, more than 4 months before hostilities began, Hitler said:

>“Danzig is a German city and wishes to belong to Germany… I regarded the peaceful settlement of this problem as a further contribution to the final loosening of the European tension. For loosening of this tension assuredly cannot be achieved through the agitation of insane warmongers, but only through the removal of the real elements of danger…As I have already pointed out, I have always seen the necessity of an access to the sea for this country(Poland) and have consequently taken this necessity into consideration…I considered it necessary, however, to make it clear to the government in Warsaw that, just as they desire access to the sea, so Germany needs access to her province in the East. Now these are all difficult problems. It is not Germany who is responsible for them, however, but rather the jugglers of Versailles who, either in their maliciousness or their thoughtlessness, placed a hundred powder barrels round about in Europe, all equipped with lighted fuses that would be hard to extinguish… Consequently, I have caused the following proposals to be submitted to the Polish Government:

>1. Danzig to return as a Free State into the framework of the German Reich.

>2. Germany to obtain a route through the Corridor and a railway line for herself with the same extra-territorial status for Germany as the Corridor itself has for Poland.

>In return, Germany is prepared:

>1. To recognize all Polish economic rights in Danzig.

>2. To insure Poland of a free harbor in Danzig of any size desired, giving her completely free access to the sea.

>3. To accept at the same time the present boundaries between Germany and Poland and to regard them as final.

>4. To conclude a twenty-five-year non-aggression treaty with Poland, a treaty therefore which would extend far beyond the duration of my own life;…”

Referring to Hitler, famed British war historian B. H. Liddell Hart wrote:

>“At first he did not think of moving against Poland—even though she possessed the largest stretch of territory carved out of Germany after World War I…Hitler was inclined to accept Poland as a junior partner for the time being, on condition that she handed back the German port of Danzig and granted Germany a free route to East Prussia through the Polish ‘Corridor’. On Hitler’s part, it was a remarkably moderate demand in the circumstances. But in successive discussions that winter, Hitler found that the Poles were obstinately disinclined to make any such concessions, and also had an inflated idea of their own strength. Even so, he continued to hope that they would come round after further negotiation. As late as March 25 he told his Army Commander-in-Chief that he ‘did not wish to solve the Danzig problem by the use of force.’” (Hart, pp. 9-10)


>“…The Polish Guarantee was the surest way to produce an early explosion, and a world war…It incited Hitler to demonstrate the futility of such a guarantee to a country out or reach from the West, while making the stiff-necked Poles even less inclined to consider any concession to him, and at the same time making it impossible for him to draw back without ‘losing face’.

>Why did Poland’s rulers accept such a fatal offer? Partly because they had an absurdly exaggerated idea of the power of their out of date forces—they boastfully talked of a ‘cavalry ride to Berlin’. Partly because of personal factors: Colonel Beck, shortly afterwards, said that he made up his mind to accept the British offer between ‘two flicks of the ash’ off the cigarette he was smoking. He went on to explain that at his meeting with Hitler in January he had found it hard to swallow Hitler’s remark that Danzig ‘must’ be handed back, and that when the British offer was communicated to him he saw it, and seized it, as a chance to give Hitler a slap in the face. This impulse was only too typical of the ways in which the fate of peoples if often decided.” (Hart, pp. 11-12)

Prof. Denson writes:

>“The real irony of the beginning of World War II is that it started over Danzig and the Polish Corridor question, which both the British and French political leaders found to be the most indefensible part of the treaty and one which most needed to be revised peacefully. Hitler made numerous offers to the Allies and to Poland for settlement of the corridor question, one being to take Danzig back and letting the people inside the corridor remain subjects of the Polish government. Another offer was to let the people within the corridor vote on which government they wanted. The British and the French, who were formal allies of Poland, pushed the Poles to accept these offers from Hitler. Britain and France also requested that President Roosevelt push the Poles to accept Hitler’s offers, but Roosevelt refused even to discuss the matter with Poland’s representatives. The Polish government arrogantly refused even to reply to these offers, and Hitler finally attacked Poland on September 1, 1939. Because of their treaty obligations, France and England then declared war against Germany on September 3 but refused to assist Poland in any way. Hitler had not expected the British and French to go to war over a treaty provision that they knew and declared to him to be completely unfair to Germany and to her people located in Danzig and the corridor.” (Denson J. V., 2001, p. 480)


>The French and British war on Germany was called "the phony war" because there was little activity on either side. However, in April and May of 1940, the Germans shocked the world by defeating the French in about thirty-five days of combat and drove an Allied army of 335,000 men, who were mostly British, to the beach at Dunkirk where they were hopelessly trapped. Hitler gave orders to allow the helpless British army to escape in order to demonstrate dramatically that he had no quarrel with the British and desperately wanted to negotiate a treaty with them. He thought that a massacre at Dunkirk would inflame British public opinion and preclude a settlement with them. However, Winston Churchill became prime minister on May 10, 1940, and not only did he refuse to negotiate, but he immediately initiated bombing raids on German cities and civilians. War propaganda by the Allies, including America, has always stated that Hitler started the bombing of cities with his attack on the British city of Coventry, but the records now clearly indicate that Churchill initiated this. Taylor, the British historian, comments on this propaganda by stating that there was "almost universal belief that Hitler started the indiscriminate bombing of civilians, whereas it was started by the directors of British strategy as some of the more honest among them have boasted." During the summer of 1940, after the bombing of civilians in German cities by the British, Hitler again tried desperately to reach a settlement with Churchill, but Churchill flatly refused to negotiate. It was not until November 1940 that Hitler retaliated by bombing British civilians and cities that were not military targets, such as Coventry. (Denson J. V., 2001, pp. 481-2)


On July 8th 1940 Churchill writes to the Minister of Aircraft Production:

>“When I look around to see how we can win the war I see that there is only one sure path. We have no Continental army which can defeat the German military power.. Should [Hitler].. not try invasion [of Britain].. there is one thing that will bring him back and bring him down, and that is an absolutely devastating, exterminating attack by very heavy bombers from this country upon the Nazi homeland. We must be able to overwhelm them by this means, without which I do not see a way through. We cannot accept any aim lower than air mastery."

With respect to Churchill’s escalation of the bombing and Hitler’s desire to avert war with England, Boog, Krebs, & Vogel write:

>“The Royal Air Force meanwhile began its air raids on targets in Germany east of the Rhine on 5 May 1940...Because of the totally inadequate bombsights of the Bomber Command bombers and the resulting horrendous inaccuracy, these strikes had the effect of terror raids on towns and villages, even though they were intended to be directed against military and industrial targets. The Luftwaffe made its first raids on military and economic objects in England only about seven weeks after the conclusion of the French campaign... As Hitler was still hoping Britain might give in, he expressly forbade attacks on London and against civilian targets. Crews were punished if they did so nevertheless, deliberately or unintentionally. It was in this situation that, during the night of 24/5 August 1940, a few German bombs were inadvertently dropped on the London area. Even British press at the time described the damage as exceedingly slight, and the official British history later confirmed that this had been a mistake by a German bomber. Churchill, however, exaggerated and exploited this incident to bring about a further escalation of the bombing war by ordering air attacks on Berlin.”  (Boog, Krebs, & Vogel, pp. 362-3)

One British RAF member described a bombing operation as follows:

>"Normally it was not difficult to find the target area but almost impossible to be anywhere near a specific target, so we just dropped the bombs at an estimated position and hoped for the best. I very much doubt if we ever hit a specific target” (Neillands, p. 38)

Only one in five planes was able to drop its bombs within 5 miles of intended target.

Arthur ‘Bomber’ Harris, the eventual head of British Bomber Command, saw civilian death as necessary, encouraged, and totally justified. He wrote that:

>“It should be emphasized that the destruction of houses, public utilities, transport and lives; the creation of a refugee problem on an unprecedented scale; and the breakdown of morale both at home and at the battle fronts by fear of extended and intensified bombing, are accepted and intended aims of bombing policy. They are not by-products of attempts to hit factories.”


On September 4th, 1940 Hitler gave a speech and said:

>“It is truly magnificent to see our Volk at war and its total discipline. We realize this all the more in a time when Mr. Churchill is demonstrating to us the use of his invention: the nightly air raid. He does not do this because air raids at night are particularly effective, but because his Air Force cannot penetrate German airspace during the day. While the German pilots, the German planes, fly over English land day by day, no Englishman has yet managed to as much as cross the North Sea by daylight. That is why they come at night and drop their bombs-you know it well-indiscriminately and without plan on civilian residential centers, on farmsteads, and villages. Wherever they see a light, they drop a bomb.”

The inaccurate nighttime British bombers kept on coming. Churchill succeeded at “bring him back” when on September 7th Hitler began the famous ‘Blitz’ where many British cities would be frequently bombed for 8 months (till May 11th 1941) leading to the deaths of 40,000 people. Yet these bombings were still not purposeful annihilations of civilians. This is less than 170 people per day in one of the biggest metropolis (London) in the world with 8.5 million inhabitants at the time. Hayek, who was living in London during the 'Blitz' writes to his friend, economist Fritz Machlup, on Oct. 13th 1940:

>"Life here in London is amazingly unchanged. Some night [sic] have been unpleasant, and once or twice even we out here have had bombs uncomfortably close. But on the whole, the effects of the German attacks are―at least in the part of London which I regularly see―extraordinarily small. I think any visitor who did not know would think that London had been bombed for one night rather than for one month."

In Operation Gomorrah which began on July 24, 1943 and lasted just 8 days, the British and U.S. bombed Hamburg and tied the ‘Blitz’ by also killing over 40,000 people (5,000 per day) and injuring another 30,000 with many more left homeless. At the time it had been the most intense and deadly bombing in history and would later be called the ‘Hiroshima of Germany’ by some British officials. But by this time the British and Americans were not needlessly slaughtering fellow homo sapiens, they were slaughtering the progenitors and offspring of the evil Nazis.


The sudden outbreak of World War One gave little time for war-time hysteria, propaganda and vilification to do its job, yet a few years of propaganda by some British newspapermen and politicians had turned World War One Germans into Belgian-children’s-arms-ripping-militaristic-Huns. The Second World War, especially given Hitler’s propaganda war with Jews would give 6 pre-war years plus another 5 hysterical war-torn years for anti-German propaganda-hysteria to reach stratospheric levels. Unlike at the end of World War One where besides the British hunger blockade the civilian German population was unharmed and able to partake in post-war dialogue and anti-German propaganda quickly subsided, post-World War Two Germany was completely destroyed with a vengeful occupation that made it impossible to counter-balance the propaganda onslaught which reached levels where any atrocity story, no matter how outlandish, especially if it pertained to Jews, could be made (or fabricated-exaggerated). Consider what is in all likelihood the biggest lie ever told by a US President to the American public. On October 27th 1941 (40 days before the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor brought USA into World War Two) US President Franklin Roosevelt made a nationally broadcasted speech where he told the American public that Hitler wanted to conquer Latin America and the US, abolish all faiths and setup a global Nazi Church. Just mindblowing. FDR mentioned:

>“Hitler has often protested that his plans for conquest do not extend across the Atlantic Ocean. But his submarines and raiders prove otherwise. So does the entire design of his new world order. For example, I have in my possession a secret map made in Germany by Hitler’s government — by the planners of the new world order. It is a map of South America and a part of Central America, as Hitler proposes to reorganize it. Today in this area there are 14 separate countries. The geographical experts of Berlin, however, have ruthlessly obliterated all existing boundary lines; and have divided South America into five vassal states, bringing the whole continent under their domination. And they have also so arranged it that the territory of one of these new puppet states includes the Republic of Panama and our great life line — the Panama Canal. That is his plan. It will never go into effect. This map makes clear the Nazi design not only against South America but against the United States itself. 

It is somewhat easy to understand how the above statements might seem credible to a public constantly bombarded with war-time propaganda, but what Roosevelt mentioned next and the American public’s belief of it is remarkable:

>"Your Government was in its possession another document made in Germany by Hitler’s government. It is a detailed plan, which, for obvious reasons, the Nazis did not wish and do not wish to publicize just yet, but which they are ready to impose a little later on a dominated world — if Hitler wins. It is a plan to abolish all existing religions — Protestant, Catholic, Mohammedan, Hindu, Buddhist, and Jewish alike. The property of all churches will be seized by the Reich and its puppets. The cross and all other symbols of religion are to be forbidden. The clergy are to be forever silenced under penalty of the concentration camps, where even now so many fearless men are being tortured because they have placed God above Hitler. In the place of the churches of our civilization, there is to be set up an international Nazi church — a church which will be served by orators sent out by the Nazi government. In the place of the Bible, the words of Mein Kampf will be imposed and enforced as Holy Writ. And in place of the cross of Christ will be put two symbols — the swastika and the naked sword. A god of blood and iron will take the place of the God of love and mercy. Let us well ponder that statement which I have made tonight.”

Replace the Bible and all religions for an international Nazi church???!!!? When a whopping 95% of Germans were Catholics or Protestants? Again, it seems hard to believe that the slightly smarter apes could believe such absurdities, but, we are what we are. Needless to say, just like with World War One, the ape-hatreds understandably led to evolution of a German or "Nazi" "identity" that was more maniacal than the World War One "Huns".

Next we discuss a bit of World War Two history in chronological order.

##### August 23rd,1939: Hitler and Stalin agree to the “Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact”.

A week before Hitler invades Poland, Hitler and Stalin agree to a deal where they would not fight each other (this was made public to the world) and dissolve Poland thus undoing its recreation brought about by the 'Treaty of Versailles' (this was not made public). Hitler felt like with such a deal the British and French would really have to be out of their minds by agreeing to come to a surrounded Poland’s aid and thus fighting both Germany and the Soviet Union. Stalin basically wanted all the land that Russia had controlled since 1772, and by encouraging Hitler to potentially fight with the “Imperialist Capitalist powers” of England-France-U.S. it would ultimately make it easier to spread Communism. Besides the carnage, Stalin's plan worked. (Schultze-Rhonhof)

##### September 1st, 1939 : Hitler Invades Poland.

With ethic Germans living in Polish territory subject to increasing acts of violence given the political tensions, and little progress made in peacefully solving the Danzig issue with the Poles now that they have firm British, French, and American support, Hitler throws in the towel and invades Poland from the West. Two days later on Sept. 3rd England and France declare war on Germany. Two days later on the 5th, leading Jewish figure Chaim Weizmann would declare in the London Times:

>“I wish to confirm in the most explicit manner, the declaration which I and my colleagues made during the last months, and especially in the last week: that the Jews "stand by Great Britain and will fight on the side of the democracies." Our urgent desire is to give effect to these declarations. We wish to do so in a way entirely consonant with the general scheme of British action, and therefore would place ourselves, in matters big and small, under the co-ordinating direction of His Majesty's Government. The Jewish Agency is ready to enter into immediate arrangements for utilizing Jewish manpower, technical ability, resources, etc.”

On Sept. 17th, after signing a cease-fire with Japan, the Soviet Union invades Poland from the East. England and France DO NOT declare war against the Soviet Union although it too obviously invades Poland. It was Hitler who was relentlessly trying to undue the 'Treaty of Versailles' and always having to resort to threats of physical force in order to get his way. Also, obviously, Hitler’s crass antisemitism would ensure that Jews spread a fanatical hatred of Hitler. Poland surrenders on 27th. The 'Phony War' begins. 

More insight into how Hitler saw things and his hopes of averting a world war can be seen in the following passage by Albert Speer who was Hitler’s main architect and close acquaintance:

>“Hitler’s view that the West would once more give in to his demands as it had done at Munich was supported by intelligence information: An officer on the British General Staff was said to have evaluated the strength of the Polish army and come to the conclusion  that Polish resistance would soon collapse. Hitler thus had reason to hope that the British General Staff would do everything in its power to advise its government against so hopeless a war. When, on September 3, the Western powers followed up their ultimatum with declarations of war, Hitler was initially stunned, but quickly reassured himself and us by saying that England and France had obviously declared war merely as a sham, in order not to lose face before the whole world. In spite of the declarations there would be no fighting; he was convinced of that, he said. He therefore ordered the Wehrmacht to remain strictly on the defensive. He felt that this decision of his showed remarkable political acumen. 

>During those last days of August Hitler was in an unwonted state of nerves and at times completely lost the reassuring air of infallible leader…To his round table he explained: “Of course we are in a state of war with England and France, but if we on our side avoid all acts of war, the whole business will evaporate. As soon as we sink a ship and they have sizable casualties, the war party over there will gain strength.” Even when German U-boats lay in a favorable position near the French battleship Dunkerque he refused to authorize an attack.”  (Speer, pp. 164-165)

##### June 22nd 1941 Hitler invades the Soviet Union. 

Historian Timothy Snyder nicely captures Stalin’s thoughts at the outbreak of war when he wrote:

>“In agreeing to divide eastern Europe with Hitler, he hoped to divert the armed conflict to western Europe, where Britain and France would have to deal with the Germans. From a Soviet ideological perspective, this meant that the contradictions of capitalism were working themselves out on the battlefield, with help of a nudge from Soviet diplomacy. From Stalin’s tactical perspective, the best way to fight a war was to allow others to bleed themselves white, and then move to take the spoils.” (Snyder, 2015)

From Hitler’s perspective and intelligence he decided to invade the Soviet Union by surprise before Stalin could “move to take the spoils” as he was planning.

A few days later on the 26th, former US President Herbert Hoover, while preparing a speech to the American people, writes to his friend John C. O’Laughlin:

>“I am convinced Germany will defeat Russia and dispose of that infecting center of Communism. And I am convinced that at the end of the campaign, which I think will move rapidly, that Hitler will propose terms to the British that they will accept.”

On the 29th Hoover begged his fellow countrymen not to enter the war and aid the tyrannical Soviet Union… lots of wisdom in this long quote, Hoover said:

>"SIX weeks ago I made a statement to the American people upon the relation of the United States to this war.That address has received large approval. It has naturally been disliked by the extremists. That is the psychosis of war. That disease has two outstanding symptoms. Those who catch it lose their reason in the fever of emotion. And in that fever intolerance rises to a pitch where it seeks to frighten men from free speech by defamation.

>...the last seven days that call to sacrifice American boys for an ideal has been made as sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal. For now we find ourselves promising aid to Stalin and his militant Communist conspiracy against the whole democratic ideals of the world. Collaboration between Britain and Russia will bring them military values, but it makes the whole argument of our joining the war to bring the four freedoms to mankind a gargantuan jest. We had better refresh our memories a little.

>Four American Presidents and four Secretaries of State beginning with Woodrow Wilson refused to have anything to do with Soviet Russia on the ground of morals and democratic ideals. They even refused diplomatic recognition. They did so because here is one of the bloodiest tyrannies and terrors ever erected in history. It destroyed every semblance of human rights and human liberty; it is a militant destroyer of the worship of God. It brutally executes millions of innocent people without the semblance of justice. It has enslaved the rest. Moreover, it has violated every international covenant; it has carried on a world conspiracy against all democracy, including the United States. And do I need to prove that it continued doing this down to seven days ago?

>When Russia was recognized by the United States in 1933, the Soviets entered into a solemn agreement that they would refrain from any propaganda, any organization or in any way whatsoever to injure the tranquility, prosperity, order or security in any part of the United States.

>Seven years later, the Dies committee reported unanimously and specifically that the Communist party in the United States is a Moscow conspiracy, masked as a political party; that its activities constitute a violation of the treaty of recognition; that under instructions from Moscow the Communists had violated the law of the United States; that throughout the entire time they had been supplied with funds from Moscow for activities against the American people and the American government. The Dies committee only confirmed what most Americans already know. Is the word of Stalin any better than the word of Hitler?

>On August 22, 1939, Stalin entered into an agreement with Hitler through which there should be joint onslaught on the democracies of the world. Nine days later Stalin attacked the Poles jointly with Hitler and destroyed the freedom of a great and democratic people. Fourteen days later Stalin destroyed the independence of democratic Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. Ninety days later on came the unprovoked attack by Russia on democratic Finland. Is that not aggression and is not every case a hideous violation of treaties and international law?

>Stalin has taken advantage of the very freedoms of democracy to destroy them with the most potent Fifth Column in all history. He contributed to the destruction of France. He has daily implanted class hate in America and a stealthy war against our institutions.

>…If we go further and join the war and we win, then we have won for Stalin the grip of Communism on Russia and more opportunity for it to extend in the world. We should at least cease to tell our sons that they would be giving their lives to restore democracy and freedom to the world."

But by June 1941 it was too late, the remaining hatreds towards Germany from World War One, the fascination and sympathy people had towards Communist-Socialist ideology, of which Mises writes:

>"It is on the complete victory of the socialist idea in the last decades that the great power of Russian Bolshevism rests. What makes Bolshevism strong is not the Soviets' artillery and machine-guns but the fact that the whole world receives its ideas sympathetically."

... and the understandable anti-Hitler psychosis Jews were spreading just expanded the "good vs. evil" mentality and war. It goes without saying that Churchill and Roosevelt immediately offered help to Stalin whom they would affectionately refer to as ‘Uncle Joe’. As Churchill said:

>“I have only one purpose, the destruction of Hitler, and my life is much simplified thereby. If Hitler invaded hell I would make at least a favourable reference to the devil in the House of Commons.”

US aid to the Soviet Union won the war for Stalin and the Communist expansion that followed the war. As Stalin himself admitted when he said “Without American production the United Nations[Allies] could never have won the war”  By the end of the war America delivered over 400,000 jeeps and trucks, 10,000 tanks (total German tank production for 1943 was 11,601 tanks), 10,000 artillery pieces, 14,500 aircraft, 35,000 motorcycles, 2.6 million tons of petroleum products (gasoline and oil), 4.4 million tons of food, entire factories were shipped too, and much more.

The initial invasion of eastern Poland by the Soviets and then its invasion by the Germans as they invaded Russia helps highlight the horrible luck Jews had by their association with both Capitalism and Communism. Snyder writes that:

>“…Jews provided the connection between peasants and markets, countryside and city. In other words, much of what Soviet officials would see as speculation, profiteering, and the like was commercial activity usually carried out by Jews. In Poland’s Volhynia district, for example, 75 percent of the registered traders (14,587 of the 19,337) were Jews…The ceaseless Soviet propaganda against commerce as such was, in fact though not in intention, directed against Jews, and weakened their standing.” (Snyder, 2015)

As the Soviet secret police (NKVD), swept in, many of these businessmen-‘Capitalist exploiters’ would surely meet a horrible fate either by shooting or deportation to the dreaded Soviet labor camps-‘Gulags’. Then as the Germans swept in, it would be the special German units known as the Einsatzgruppe which tasked with eliminating the Polish and Soviet power structures that would kill many Jews due to their association with Communism. Contrary to many myths surrounding and exaggerating the suffering of Jews in WWII, the German Einsatzgruppen were never specifically tasked with the annihilation of Jews, Jews were simply one of the many victims associated with their larger task of dismantling German opposition. Snyder explains :

>“Sometimes the Einsatzgruppen who followed the Wehrmacht into the Soviet Union are presented as unstoppable agents of evil with an unambiguous program of total killing. In this argument, the men of the Einsatzgruppen knew from the beginning, regardless of whether or not there was a plan, that they were supposed to kill all of the Jews. An image emerges of the Einsatzgruppen as special anti-Semitic units with perfect knowledge and exclusive responsibility. But this was not, in fact, the case. The Einsatzgruppen had orders to shoot some Jews from the beginning, but not to shoot them all; their initial instructions mentioned Jews as one category among others. Their basic task at the beginning of the invasion of the Soviet Union was to demolish the state, as they had done in Poland. Thus their targets were groups thought to be mainstays of the Soviet regime. In Poland this had meant educated Poles; in the Soviet Union this meant, as the Nazis saw matters, communists and Jewish males….The myth of their[Einsatzgruppen] total responsibility arose during postwar trials” (Snyder, 2015)


##### September 10th 1941

Chaim Weizmann sends a letter to Churchill mentioning how Jews helped England defeat Germany in World War One by bringing the United States into the war and how they will help England do the same thing again:

>“…Two years have passed since, on the outbreak of the war I offered to His Majesty's government, on behalf of the Jewish people, the fullest active support of Jews in Palestine and throughout the world…I have spent months in America, traveling up and down the country, and clearly searching the American scene. Forces over there are finely balanced; the position is uncertain. There is only one big ethnic group which is willing to stand, to a man, for Great Britain, and a policy of "all-out-aid" for her: the five million American Jews. From Secretary Morgenthau, Governor Lehman, Justice Frankfurter, down to the simplest Jewish workman or trader, they are conscious of all that this struggle against Hitler implies. It has been repeatedly acknowledged by British Statesmen that it was the Jews who, in the last war, effectively helped to tip the scales in America in favour of Great Britain. They are keen to do it - and may do it - again .”

Again, totally understandable from a 'Jewish identity' perspective. Remember Charles Lindberg's speech. These 5 million highly educated, motivated, scared, and understandably vengeful people would intensify the naive 'good vs. evil' mindset needed to both start and eventually bring the US into the war. Again, not their fault. An understandable reaction to antisemitism. The chicken came before the egg, or wait, no! The egg came before the chicken!  


##### April 1943: Katyn Massacre

At the beginning of World War Two, the Russians, led by one of mankind’s most brutal and lying dictators-governments, Joseph Stalin, invaded Poland and executed over 15,000 leading Poles and buried them in the Katyn forest. When the Germans then invaded the Soviet Union, thus overrunning Poland and stumbled upon this massacre, they invited the Red Cross and polish delegations to document-verify. The Poles were obviously outraged and bitterly complained to Churchill about the Soviets who are now allied with England. Churchill says “The Bolsheviks can be very cruel” and tells the Russians “We shall certainly oppose vigorously any 'investigation' by the International Red Cross or any other body in any territory under German authority. Such investigation would be a fraud and its conclusions reached by terrorism". Today everyone knows, as confirmed by Mikhail Gorbachev, that Stalin had ordered the massacre for which the Germans were blamed for at the Nuremberg Trials as Churchill kept quiet. Can you guess who was the lead judge from the Russian delegation during the Nuremberg Trials who fraudulently blamed the Germans for the Katyn massacre and more? Yup, Andrey "Shoot these rabid dogs!" Vyshinsky. 

##### May 22, 1943: The Hollywood film “Mission to Moscow” is released to movie theaters across the U.S.

This film was pro-Soviet Union propaganda which had been requested by Roosevelt himself and was based on a likewise titled book by U.S. Ambassador to the Soviet Union Joseph E. Davies who was one of Roosevelt’s strongest admirers of Stalin and the Soviet Union. The movie showed how Stalin’s ‘Moscow Show Trials’ were fair and needed to purge the various saboteurs, and how wonderful the Soviet Union and Stalin were contrary to what the unenlightened Americans thought. Robert Buckner, the film’s producer, mentioned that the film was “an expedient lie for political purposes, glossily covering up important facts with full or partial knowledge of their false presentation”.

On July 8th 1943 in New York City’s Polo Grounds park, Jews Solomon Mikhoels and Itzik Feffer, leaders of the Soviet Union’s “Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee” held the largest pro-Soviet rally ever held in the U.S. with over 50,000 attendees.  Ironically both men would later be killed by Stalin once he too wanted to curb Jewish influence. Mikhoels was killed on Stalin’s orders and his death made to look like a car accident. Feffer’s death was part of one of Stalin’s mini anti-Jewish purges, which came to be known as the ‘Night of the Murdered Poets’ where many of the ‘Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee’s leaders were killed. Soviet Jew’s inevitable interest and sympathy with Zionism, and then the creation of Israel, displeased Stalin leading to increased anti-Semitism within the soviet power structure. When his daughter confronted him about her ex-husband’s (Jew) father’s troubles, Stalin told her: “That first husband of yours was thrown your way by the Zionists…You don’t understand. The entire older generation is contaminated with Zionism and now they are teaching the young people too.” In Rosemary Sullivan’s book “Stalin’s Daughter” she writes:

>“Stalin was hoping that the new Jewish state would take a pro-Soviet stance, but when Israel leaned toward America, he was furious…It was clear to Stalin that Russian Jews who enthusiastically supported Israel were dangerous Zionists. They had friends and family ties in the United States…If war with America broke out they would betray the U.S.S.R…Articles began to appear in Pravda…in 1948 accusing literary, music and theater critics, most of whom were Jewish of ideological sabotage. They were branded as rootless cosmopolitans, they were persons without identity and passportless, wanderers… Jews were disloyal by definition. Jews resisted the soviet project of complete assimilation of national, ethnicities, they identified themselves as Jews. In 1952 12 members of the JAC would be executed” (Sullivan, 2015)   

Solomon Mikhoels and Itzik Feffer were two victims of this mini-purge of the JAC.

Another mini-anti-Jewish purge which fortunately did not become a gigantic pogrom due to Stalin’s death was the so-called ‘Doctor’s Plot’ which took place between 1952-3. Paranoid about many Jewish doctors being part of a conspiracy to ill-treat soviet leadership amongst other reasons, Stalin had many arrested and tortured to uncover the plot. According to Nikita Khrushchev, Stalin encouraged the interrogators to “beat, beat and, beat again.” and planned on growing this purge into much larger Jewish deportations.

##### October 1944.

Churchill seals the fate of millions with scribbles on a napkin in a meeting in Moscow with Stalin. The Soviet Union would be allowed to control 90 percent of Romania and 75 percent of Bulgaria, 50 percent each in Hungary and Yugoslavia. These percentages would eventually become 100% communist rule. Churchill referred to his napkin as a “naughty document”.

##### February 4-11, 1945: Stalin, Churchill, and Roosevelt meet in Yalta to discuss the post-war world order.

By this time Germany was retreating on all fronts and virtually defenseless from Allied indiscriminate civilian terror bombing which had been British policy since February 1942. So by the time the ‘Big Three’ met at Yalta in February 1945, Germany was a sitting duck and Hitler was just three months away from his suicide. Wanting to aid his great friend ‘Uncle Joe’ Stalin, Churchill ordered the destruction of yet another city, Dresden.  From the 13th to the 15th of February, 4 raids with over 1,200 heavy bombers delivered about 4,000 tons of bombs and incendiary devices. The firestorm by itself incinerated about 4 square miles in the heart of the city and ultimately about 25,000 died in the bombing. Of a total of 796 British bombers that participated in the raid, only six were lost, with three of those hit by ‘friendly bombing’ by bombs dropped by aircraft flying over them. The bad press created by such barbarism so late in the war was hard to avoid even when aided by war-time jingoism. Churchill sent a secret memo stating:

>“It seems to me that the moment has come when the question of bombing of German cities simply for the sake of increasing the terror, though under other pretexts, should be reviewed ... I feel the need for more precise concentration upon military objectives such as oil and communications behind the immediate battle-zone, rather than on mere acts of terror and wanton destruction, however impressive.”

While at the Yalta conference Churchill gives a toast in Stalin’s honor:

>"It is no exaggeration…when I say that we regard Marshal Stalin's life as the most precious to the hopes and hearts of all of us...I walk through this world with greater courage and hope when I find myself in a relation of friendship and intimacy with this great man, whose fame has gone not only over all Russia, but the world."

About a year earlier on January 24th, 1944 Churchill wrote to Stalin:

>“I am sure you know that I would never negotiate with the Germans separately and that we tell you every overture they make as you have told us”…“We never thought of making a separate peace even in the year when we were all alone and could have easily made one without serious loss to the British Empire and largely at your expense.”

As this statement shows, Churchill was well aware of the fact that Hitler never wanted a war with England and could have easily ended the conflict.

Earlier at the Tehran conference on November 28th 1943 (Churchill and Stalin had invaded neutral Iran) Roosevelt had been reminded of the horrific nature of Stalin and his regime by former U.S. Ambassador to the Soviet Union William Bullitt. Roosevelt replied:

>“Bill, I don’t dispute your facts. They are accurate. I don’t dispute the logic of your reasoning. I just have a hunch that Stalin is not that kind of man. Harry Hopkins says he’s not and that he doesn’t want anything but security for his country, and I think that if I give him everything I possibly can and ask nothing from him in return, noblesse oblige, he won’t try to annex anything and will work with me for a world of democracy and peace.” (Hopkins was a soviet spy! And Roosevelt’s closest advisor who even lived at the white house!)

And according to current Ambassador Averell Harrison:

>[Roosevelt] “told me that he didn’t care whether the countries bordering Russia became communized.”

At Yalta the ‘Big Three’ discussed their plans for post-war Germany, which included Germany’s dismemberment, occupation, and even enslavement as hundreds of thousands of Germans would be expected to be forced laborers-slaves long after the war. Earlier on September 1944 Roosevelt and Churchill had agreed to implement the ‘Morgenthau Plan’ named after one of its main creators, Jewish close friend of FDR and Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau. The plan called for all modern industry in Germany to be dismantled, transforming Germany into a country primarily agricultural and pastoral in its character. Understandably since he was Jewish, Morgenthau had even more hatred for Germany, US Secretary of War Henry Stimson wrote in his diary:

>“I found around me, particularly in Morgenthau, a very bitter atmosphere of personal resentment against the entire German people without regard to individual guilt, and I am very much afraid that it will result in our taking mass vengeance on the part of our people in the shape of clumsy economic action. This in my opinion will be ineffective and will inevitably produce a very dangerous reaction in Germany and probably a new war” 

On another occasion Stimson said:

>“I cannot believe that he [Roosevelt] will follow Morgenthau's views. If he does, it will certainly be a disaster… The President appoints a committee and then goes off to Quebec with the man [Morgenthau] who really represents the minority and is so biased by his Semitic grievances that he is really a very dangerous advisor”


Germany’s minister of propaganda Joseph Goebbels promptly spread news of this plan to Germans to stiffen their resolve and further link Jews to their suffering. Roosevelt’s hatred of Germany was also an important factor, he told Henry Morgenthau that “We have got to be tough with Germany, and I mean the German people not just the Nazis. We either have to castrate the German people or you have got to treat them in such a manner so they can’t just go on reproducing people who want to continue the way they have in the past.” (Persico, p. 348) Roosevelt told Secretary of War Henry L. Stimson:

>“Too many people here and in England hold the view that the German people as a whole are not responsible for what has taken place – that only a few Nazis are responsible. That unfortunately is not based on fact. The German people must have it driven home to them that the whole nation has been engaged in a lawless conspiracy against the decencies of modern civilization.”

Roosevelt told the NY Times in August 1944 that “if I had my way, I would keep Germany on a breadline for 25 years!” This sort of animosity towards all Germans carried over to the Allied occupation of a defeated Germany. The American and British authorities imposed various economic controls which paralyzed an economy desperate to produce and feed itself. In his essay “Did the United States Create Democracy in Germany” James L. Payne writes:

>“Americans were not to engage in any kind of friendly, normal intercourse with Germans. They were not supposed to shake hands with them, to visit them in their homes, to play games with them, or to converse or argue with them. If they went to a German church, they had to sit in separate, American-only pews. The army newspaper Stars and Stripes ran many antifraternization slogans and statements such as “Don’t  fraternize. If in a German town you bow to a pretty girl or pat a blonde child…you bow to Hitler and his reign of blood” (qtd. In Davidson 1959,54). Military police arrested more than a thousand Americans in an effort to sustain the policy of nonfraternization(Davidson 1959, 55)…Troops  were specifically ordered not to let American food supplies go to hungry Germans. American households were instructed not to let their German maids have leftovers; excess food was to be destroyed or rendered inedible (Davidson 1959, 85). A German university professor pointed out that U.S. soldiers “create unnecessary ill will to pour twenty liters of left-over cocoa in the gutter when it is badly needed in our clinics. It makes it hard for me to defend American democracy among my countrymen.”(qtd. In Davidson 1959, 86)”

 
As late as February 1947 almost 2 years after Germany was defeated the allies had over 4 million German slaves held in various work camps. 3 million in the Soviet Union, 750,000 in France, 400,000 in Britain and 40,000 in Belgium. On May 10th 1945 U.S. President Truman approved policy JCS 1067 which directed U.S. occupation forces to “take no steps looking toward the economic rehabilitation of Germany designed to maintain or strengthen the German economy”

Fortunately for Germans, they stumbled upon Ludwig Erhard, who is described by the Mises Institute as:

>“Ludwig Wilhelm Erhard (1897–1977) was chancellor of West Germany from 1963 until 1966. He is notable for his leading role in the "German Miracle," West Germany's postwar economic recovery: Erhard's decision, as economics director for the British and American occupation zones, to lift many price controls in 1948, despite opposition from both the social democratic opposition and Allied authorities, and his consistent advocacy of free markets, helped set West Germany on its phenomenal growth path — an economic recovery to rapid growth and widespread prosperity in the 1950s.”


If we fast forward about a year after the war to March 5th 1946 we find Churchill giving his famous ‘Iron Curtain’ speech where he described how now the Soviet Union was successfully spreading Communism all over the world:

>“From Stettin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic an iron curtain has descended across the Continent. Behind that line lie all the capitals of the ancient states of Central and Eastern Europe. Warsaw, Berlin, Prague, Vienna, Budapest, Belgrade, Bucharest and Sofia; all these famous cities and the populations around them lie in what I must call the Soviet sphere, and all are subject, in one form or another, not only to Soviet influence but to a very high and in some cases increasing measure of control from Moscow… In a great number of countries, far from the Russian frontiers and throughout the world, Communist fifth columns are established and work in complete unity and absolute obedience to the directions they receive from the Communist center. Except in the British Commonwealth and in the United States where Communism is in its infancy, the Communist parties or fifth columns constitute a growing challenge and peril to Christian civilization. The outlook is also anxious in the Far East and especially in Manchuria…I do not believe that Soviet Russia desires war. What they desire is the fruits of war and the indefinite expansion of their power and doctrines.”

Churchill even mentions “the Far East and especially Manchuria”. Yes! By the U.S. and England destroying Japan, the anti-communist and multi-ethic experiment of Manchukuo was eventually overrun by the Communist Mao, once again leading to probably the worst non-war related man-made disaster ever in his ‘Great Famine’ and more.

Roosevelt’s and Churchill’s pro-Soviet propaganda during the war, not only helped legitimize the disastrous ideological error of Communism, but it even cost Churchill his party’s reelection. Even with all the hoopla of being the great wartime leader with all the fancy motivational speeches, Churchill’s Conservative Party lost the 1945 election to the more socialist Labour party which would soon nationalize many major industries like coal, health, gas, transportation, steel, electricity, etc.

What about Poland which had been swallowed by Stalin who massacred its leaders? When the Poles protested to Churchill he angrily told polish leader Mikolajczyk:

>"We shall tell the world how unreasonable you are. You will start another war in which 25 million lives will be lost...You are absolutely crazy...Unless you accept the frontier you are out of business forever. The Russians will sweep through your country and your people will be liquidated. You are on the verge of [annihilation”](https://books.google.com/books?id=O5GaoN43DLkC&pg=RA1-PA127&lpg=RA1-PA127&dq=%22I+wash+my+hands+off;+as+far+as+I+am+concerned+we+shall+give+the+business+up.+Because+of+quarrels%22&source=bl&ots=pUUbb2HpSV&sig=ACfU3U3uhYhOgdOqeyhTgLv8IIBXBStIrw&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiU8cW5np78AhVgSzABHRFjAHAQ6AF6BAgLEAM#v=onepage&q=%22I%20wash%20my%20hands%20off%3B%20as%20far%20as%20I%20am%20concerned%20we%20shall%20give%20the%20business%20up.%20Because%20of%20quarrels%22&f=false)

As Germany retreats millions of German civilians escape from East Prussia moving west, running away from the Soviet Union’s Red Army which was embarking on a legendary destruction spree raping over 2 million women of whom over 200,000 died while in the act. One of America’s greatest diplomats George F. Kennan wrote in his memoirs:

>“The disaster that befell this area with the entry of the Soviet forces has no parallel in modern European experience. There were considerable sections of it where, to judge by all existing evidence, scarcely a man, woman or child of the indigenous population was left alive after the initial passage of the Soviet forces.” (Bradberry)

Ilya Ehrenburg, another Jew, who was Stalin’s propaganda minister fueled this Russian orgy of destruction by having leaflets dropped on the advancing Russian armies mentioning the following:

>“Kill, kill, you brave Red Army soldiers, kill. There is nothing in the Germans that is innocent. Obey the instructions of comrade Stalin and stamp the fascistic beast in its cave. Break with force the racial arrogance of the German women. Take them as your legal loot. Kill, you brave Red Army soldiers, kill!”

>“Kill the Germans, whenever you find them! Every German is our mortal enemy. Have no mercy on women, children, or the aged! Kill every German –wipe them out!” (Bradberry, p. 6310)

Alexander Solzhenitsyn was a captain in the Red Army as it overran East Prussia and described how “For three weeks the war had been going on inside Germany, and all of us knew very well that if the girls were German they could be raped and then shot.” (Bradberry, p. 6327)  During this time he wrote a letter to a friend critical of Stalin’s handling of the war which got him an initial 8 year sentence to the Gulags which he would later write about in his famous book ‘The Gulag Archipelago’. Uncle Joe Stalin said people should “understand it if a soldier who has crossed thousands of kilometres through blood and fire and death has fun with a woman or takes some trifle” and in another occasion when told about Red Army maltreatment of German women he said “We lecture our soldiers too much; let them have their initiative.”

The post-WWII order would be created ‘Stalin-style’, with mass expulsions and ethnic cleansing of Germans. A whopping 10 to 15 million ethnic Germans would be expelled from their ancestral homes in Eastern Europe and places like German East Prussia, Poland, Yugoslavia, Hungary, Romania and Czechoslovakia with about 2 million dying as a result of the expulsions. Ohh, pardon me, did I write ‘Stalin-style’, minor slip of the fingers there, I meant to write ‘Churchill-style’. In a speech before the House of Commons on December 15th, 1944 Churchill explained the rationale for mass expulsions:

>“Thus I have set before the House what is, in outline, the offer which the Russians, on whom the main burden of liberation still falls, make to the Polish people. I cannot believe that such an offer should be rejected by Poland. It would, of course, have to be accompanied by the disentanglement of populations in the East and in the North. The transference of several millions of people would have to be effected from the East to the West or North, as well as the expulsion of the Germans—because that is what is proposed: the total expulsion of the Germans—from the area to be acquired by Poland in the West and the North. For expulsion is the method which, so far as we have been able to see, will be the most satisfactory and lasting. There will be no mixture of populations to cause endless trouble, as has been the case in Alsace-Lorraine. A clean sweep will be made. I am not alarmed by the prospect of the disentanglement of populations, nor even by these large transferences, which are more possible in modern conditions than they ever were before....Nor do I see why there should not be room in Germany for the German populations of East Prussia and of the other territories I have mentioned. After all, 6,000,000 or 7,000,000 Germans have been killed already in this frightful war, into which they did not hesitate, for a second time in a generation, to plunge all Europe.”

And one can always repeat the Treaty of Versailles. A defeated people have no choice but to put up with anything no matter how unjust. Churchill continues:

>“…we shall go whatever distance is necessary to complete our object—it seems extremely unlikely that the evil and hateful forces in Germany, who plotted, planned and began this war, will have the power to resist the decisions of a peace or armistice conference, at which the principal victorious Powers will be assembled.”

We should once again remind ourselves that Hitler did not want this war, that England and France declaring war on Germany was an aggressive diplomatic blunder, and that Hitler had no desire to fight either the French and much less the British.


