

#### The language of mythological "evil".

If the slightly smarter apes are once again going to segregate themselves for slaughter, we must look at the language and ideas that fuel the us vs. them hatefest that precedes the slaughters. Let us briefly look at the deteriorating relationship and polarizing vilification between Hitler's government and Jews, especially American Jews because they played a crucial role. Due to errors already discussed Hitler felt like Jews had a negative influence on Germany and because of this it is understandable that Jews would detest Hitler and be extra vigilant about any antisemitism in Germany and eventually do whatever was in their power to help defeat him. One should be reminded of the fact that much of Europe, especially with the virulent spread of the atheistic Communist ideology and its unfortunate yet very understandable association with Jews, would have its usual dose of discrimination against Jews, as well as sporadic outbursts of violence. And of course there was the older type of religious antisemitism like Jews having killed-rejected Jesus, Shakespearean 'pound of flesh' type of nonsense which hardly needs serious analysis and we can attribute mostly to religious squabbles of the past which were fortunately losing their importance but were still significant factors. Soon after Hitler was appointed Chancellor in January 30th, 1933, but before he had dictatorial powers or any laws discriminating against Jews were passed, on March 27th American Jews headed by Rabbi Stephen S. Wise and thousands of other Jewish leaders, held mass rallies across the U.S. in over 70 locations like Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Baltimore, with New York's Madison Square Garden overflowing with over 50,000 supporters and its rally being broadcast worldwide ultimately having a whopping one million participants. They promoted a boycott of German goods and would try to use their influence on world governments to help bring down Hitler's government. Cyrus Adler, president of the American Jewish Committee was one of the many voices against such a direct confrontation with the German government. His committee's Jewish contacts in Germany were strongly opposed to such rallies. (Breitman & Lichtman, 2013, p. 1001) New York Supreme Court Justice Joseph M. Proskauer wisely expressed his concerns against "causing more trouble for the Jews in Germany by unintelligent action". The British newspaper The Daily Express had a headline story about the event titled "Judea Declares War on Germany". It mentioned that:

>"The Israeli people around the world declare economic and financial war against Germany. Fourteen million Jews stand together as one man, to declare war against Germany. The Jewish wholesaler will forsake his firm, the banker his stock exchange, the merchant his commerce and the pauper his pitiful shed in order to join together in a holy war against Hitler's people."

In retaliation, 5 days after on April 1st, Germany's Minister of Propaganda Joseph Goebbels organized a one-day boycott of Jewish businesses which would be lifted if anti-Nazi protests were suspended which obviously did not happen. This would be the beginning of a political and propaganda war between organized Jewry (predominantly American Jews) and Hitler's government which would see German Jews lose more and more freedoms, and very important, would help Jews be increasingly seen as a dangerous 5th column to be interned during the war similar to how Japanese-Americans were as the US fought Japan. A few days later on April 7th Germany would pass the 'Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service' which would prevent Jews, as well as political opponents, from having many types of government jobs.

Here are a few more statements from leading Jews at the time, long, long, long before the war broke out on Sept 1st, 1939 or Jews were sent to ghettos or concentration camps. In a radio broadcast which was also printed in the August 7th 1933 edition of the New York Times, prominent Jewish lawyer and civic leader Samuel Untermeyer mentioned the following:

>"Each of you, Jew and Gentile alike, who has not already enlisted in this sacred war should do so now and here. It is not sufficient that you should buy no goods made in Germany. You must refuse to deal with any merchant or shopkeeper who sells any German-made goods or who patronises German ships or shipping…. we will undermine the Hitler regime and bring the German people to their senses by destroying their export trade on which their very existence [depends."](http://www.anap88.com/sojustice.htm)

The same speech is full of fatalistic language, gross exaggerations, and maniacal good vs. evil characterizations of all Germans in general:

>"…the holy war in the cause of humanity in which we are embarked. Jews and non-Jews alike, for we are equally concerned that the work of centuries shall not be undone, and that civilization shall not be allowed to die. It is a war that must be waged unremittingly until the black clouds of bigotry, race hatred and fanaticism that have descended upon what was once Germany, but is now medieval Hitlerland, have been dispersed. If we will but enlist to a man and persist in our purpose, the bright sun of civilization will again shine upon Germany… …which has thereby been converted from a nation of culture into a veritable hell of cruel and savage beast… …We owe it not only to our persecuted brethren but to the entire world to now strike in self-defense a blow that will free humanity from a repetition of this incredible outrage. This time the Jews are the victims, next time it may be the Catholics or the Protestants… …Now or never must all the nations of the earth make common cause against the monstrous claim that the slaughter, starvation and annihilation, by a country that has reverted to barbarism, of its own innocent and defenseless citizens without rhyme, reason or excuse is an internal affair against which the rest of the world must stand idly by and not lift a hand in defense… …fiendish torture, cruelty and persecution that are being inflicted day by day upon these men, women and children, of the terrors of worse than death in which they are living…the world will confront a picture so fearful in its barbarous cruelty that the hell of war and the alleged Belgian atrocities will pale into insignificance as compared to this devilishly, deliberately, cold-bloodedly planned and already partially executed campaign for the extermination… …rescue these 600,000 human souls from the tortures of hell…this brutal, senseless, unprovoked assault upon [civilization."](http://www.anap88.com/sojustice.htm)

On January, 1934 (over 5 years before start of war) Vladimir Jabotinsky, one of the most important and influential Zionist ideologues:

>"For months now the struggle against Germany is waged by each Jewish community, at each conference, in all our syndicates, and by each Jew all over the world. There is reason to believe that our part in this struggle has general value. We will trigger a spiritual and material war of all the world against Germany's ambitions to become once again a great nation, to recover lost territories and colonies. But our Jewish interests demand the complete destruction of Germany. Collectively and individually, the German nation is a threat to us Jews." 

These sorts of statements frequently blasted on leading newspapers in the USA and England for about 6 years, and their influence on sympathetic politicians, especially the already fiercely anti-German Roosevelt administration (Roosevelt had been Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Navy during WWI) would have disastrous consequences. So one can see how the fatalistic language, and maniacal good vs. evil characterizations-ideology would spread throughout the Roosevelt-US and British administrations, which coupled with existing anti-German sentiment from a massive world war just 20 years earlier, would inadvertently polarize the Western world leading to the World War Two slaughter.

With the exception of Hitler's public harassment of Jews, which to some degree was a reaction to Jewry's sort of propaganda and economic war against his government, which of course was an understandable reaction to Hitler's crass antisemitism and millennia-long history of European antisemitism, Hitler's Germany was far, far, far from the silly images of goose-stepping soldiers and a population under some 'evil' spell. The Third Reich was overwhelmingly a Christian nation which promoted traditional conservative values of piety, the Church, and that inevitable watchful eye of an ever-present God that motivates people to do 'good' and respect the Ten Commandments, etc. According to historian Richard J. Evans by 1939, 95% of Germans still called themselves Protestant or Catholic, and so did the majority of the members of the National Socialist Party. Hitler mentioned in a speech on October 27th 1928 that "We tolerate no one in our ranks who attacks the ideas of Christianity…in fact our movement is Christian." Hitler and his fellow ideologues did try to influence and control the church to various degrees leading to considerable bad blood between the Nazi government and the various religious structures, but the bottom line is that the general character of average Germans was still heavily influenced by Christianity and the worldly civilized values Germans have always been relative leaders in. A perfect example of the power of the Church and the morals of the German public can be seen in the Church's opposition to Hitler's euthanasia program that killed the mentally retarded. As knowledge of this program became known the Church strongly opposed it and Hitler put an end to it due to such 'public' pressure. As Stalin's daughter, Svetlana Alliluyeva, who caused a worldwide sensation when she defected from the Soviet Union in March 1967 said "There was no 'public' in the U.S.S.R". The atheistic nature of the Soviet Union obviously played a role in making it so much easier to discard human life and thus be tremendously deadlier. By the time the war had broken out on September 1st, 1939, Hitler had been harassing Jews in Germany for about 6 years in order to get them to leave, but such harassment was incomparable to the death and terror Stalin had already caused in the Soviet Union. For example, due to the forced collectivization of farming and grain requisitions imposed on the western part of the Soviet Union, especially the Ukraine, about six million people starved to death in 1932–3 in a famine referred to as Holodomor which means 'killing by hunger' in Ukrainian. "…millions of people are starving in a country that could be a breadbasket for the world" said Hitler in a speech on March 2nd, 1933 (Snyder, 2010, p. 61). In his book "Bloodlands: Europe Between Hitler and Stalin" Timothy Snyder compares the lethality of both regimes prior to war in 1938:

>"Soviet terror, at this point, was not only on a far greater scale; it was incomparably more lethal. Nothing in Hitler's Germany remotely resembled the execution of nearly four hundred thousand people in eighteen months, as under Order 00447 in the Soviet Union. In the years 1937 and 1938, 267 people were sentenced to death in Nazi Germany, as compared to 378,326 death sentences within the kulak operation alone in the Soviet Union. Again, given the difference in population size, the chances that a Soviet citizen would be executed in the kulak action were about seven hundred times greater than the chances that a German citizen would be sentenced to death in Nazi Germany for any offense." [(Snyder, pp. 86–88)](https://books.google.com/books?id=maEfAQAAQBAJ&pg=PA86&lpg=PA86&dq=%22at+this+point,+was+not+only+on+a+far+greater+scale;+it+was+incomparably+more+lethal%22&source=bl&ots=liPlx5p_A7&sig=ACfU3U25bGpYgmk20P15uHsK320HsbgTLg&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwi4yrKAz_HsAhXxkOAKHSe7BhsQ6AEwAHoECAgQAg#v=onepage&q=%22at%20this%20point%2C%20was%20not%20only%20on%20a%20far%20greater%20scale%3B%20it%20was%20incomparably%20more%20lethal%22&f=false)

From June 30th to July 2nd 1932, Hitler carried out a political purge known as ‘The Night of the Long Knives’ which led to the deaths of at least 85 people within the upper ranks of the German government. Stalin’s version of a political purge, at least his biggest one, was “The Great Terror-Purge” which lasted from 1936-8 and led to the deaths of 700,000 to 1.2 million people. From the 5 remaining original Politburo members who took part in the 1917 October Revolution which brought Lenin and his Bolsheviks to power, all except Leon Trotsky were killed. Trotsky went into exile in Mexico but Stalin still managed to get him assassinated in 1940. The killing of top officials was done under the veil of ‘justice’ in what came to be known as Stalin’s “Moscow Show Trials” where state prosecutor Andrey Vyshinsky would give long-winded speeches full of made up accusations, and defendants, either tortured or threatened in various ways, gave their own little speeches confessing their guilt and what bad boys they had been. Here is a great example of Vyshinsky’s wonderful legalese:

>“Shoot these rabid dogs! Death to this gang who hide their ferocious teeth, their eagle claws, from the people! Down with that vulture Trotsky, from whose mouth a bloody venom drips, putrefying the great ideals of Marxism! Let’s put these liars out of harm’s way, these miserable pygmies who dance around rotting carcasses! Down with these abject animals! Let's put an end once and for all to these miserable hybrids of foxes and pigs, these stinking corpses! Let's exterminate the mad dogs of capitalism, who want to tear to pieces the flower of our new Soviet nation! Let's push the bestial hatred they bear our leaders back down their own throats!” (Panne, et al., p. 750)

The ‘Show Trials’ and purges were pure tyranny orchestrated by Stalin to ensure he remained in power but it helps to hear it from the Soviets themselves. In February 25th 1956 Stalin’s successor Nikita Khrushchev shook the world by admitting Stalin’s tyranny as the cause of the purge and related trials, he said in arguably one of the most historic speeches of the 20th century:

>“The commission has become acquainted with a large quantity of materials in the NKVD[Soviet secret police] archives and with other documents. It has established many facts pertaining to the fabrication of cases against communists, to false accusations, to glaring abuses of socialist legality, which resulted in the death of innocent people. It became apparent that many party, Soviet and economic activists who in 1937-1938 were branded "enemies" were actually never enemies, spies, wreckers, etc., but were always honest communists. They were merely stigmatised [as enemies]. Often, no longer able to bear barbaric tortures, they charged themselves (at the order of the investigative judges/falsifiers) with all kinds of grave and unlikely crimes… It was determined that of the 139 members and candidates of the central committee who were elected at the 17th congress, 98 persons, i.e., 70 per cent, were arrested and shot (mostly in 1937-1938)…The only reasons why 70 per cent of the central committee members and candidates elected at the 17th congress were branded as enemies of the party and of the people were because honest communists were slandered, accusations against them were fabricated, and revolutionary legality was gravely undermined…The same fate met not only central committee members but also the majority of the delegates to the 17th party congress. Of 1,966 delegates with either voting or advisory rights, 1,108 persons were arrested on charges of anti-revolutionary crimes, i.e., decidedly more than a majority. This very fact shows how absurd, wild and contrary to common sense were the charges of counterrevolutionary crimes made out, as we now see, against a majority of participants at the 17th party congress.”


Bottom line. You were far better off being a Jew in pre-war Hitler's Germany than an average citizen in the Soviet Union, or a black person in the USA. In Stalin's Soviet Union it was unheard of for a politically disliked group of people to simply be encouraged to leave. More likely they would have been immediately relocated by force with many shot and sent to concentration camps. Keep in mind that throughout all this time German citizens are well aware of the orchestrated vilification campaign by organized Jewry and Joseph Goebbles would constantly remind them. 

Again, as Jabotinsky said 5 years before the start of the war:

>"Jewish interests demand the complete destruction of Germany. Collectively and individually, the German nation is a threat to us Jews."

Hitler's success at overturning some of the obvious wrongs of the 'Treaty of Versailles', such as reuniting the Sudetenland Germans who overwhelmingly welcomed the move, was of course propagandized by many (especially Jews for understandable reasons) as the result of some militaristic 'evil madman' bent on world conquest similarly to how the Keiser had been wrongly-cartoonishly portrayed in World War One. The combination of bad blood remaining from World War One twenty years earlier, coupled with the understandably bad publicity Hitler's pseudo scientific antisemitic nonsense like the below…:

>"For us, it is a problem of whether our nation can ever recover its health, whether the Jewish spirit can ever really be eradicated. Don't be misled into thinking you can fight a disease without killing the carrier, without destroying the bacillus. Don't think you can fight racial tuberculosis without taking care to rid the nation of the carrier of that racial tuberculosis. This Jewish contamination will not subside, this poisoning of the nation will not end, until the carrier himself, the Jew, has been banished from our midst." (Hitler, 1920)

…. had the obvious effect of turning Jews and those who rightly sympathized with their suffering against him making it nearly impossible to undo the wrongs of 'The Treaty of Versailles' without sparks that would eventually led to war. Regarding US President Franklin Roosevelt, historian Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. (himself a Jew) noted that "No president had appointed so many Jews to public office. No president had surrounded himself with so many Jewish advisers". Roosevelt's numerous leading Jewish friendships like Rabbi Stephen S. Wise(president of both the American Jewish Congress and the World Jewish Congress at the time), Supreme Court justices Louis Brandeis and Felix Frankfurter, Secretary of the Treasury Henry Morgenthau, Jr., senior U.S. Treasury Department official and Soviet spy who was such a close friend of Roosevelt that he actually lived in the White House, Harry Dexter White, 'Brain Trust' members like banker James Warburg and lawyer Benjamin Cohen, and many more friendships, coupled with the understandable desire to be seen as a great leader of the free world against the "dictators" who were obviously mistreating a historically powerless minority, would fuel a certain naïve idealism leading him to encourage both the English and Poles not to give into Hitler's legitimate demands. British 'Secretary of Foreign Affairs' Lord Halifax, although initially sympathetic to Hitler's foreign policy, understandably became much more bellicose towards Hitler's demands after the antisemitic riots of Kristallnacht, and became one of the leading statesmen blocking a reasonable diplomatic resolution and leading to war.

Understandably, American Jews' cry for war against Hitler would reach fever pitch and play an important role in both, preventing diplomacy from avoiding war, and then further escalating the war by bringing the US into the conflict. On February 9th 1938, almost 7 months before the outbreak of war, the Polish Ambassador in Washington, Count Jerzy Potocki, reported back home to the Foreign Minister in Warsaw on the Jewish role in influencing American foreign policy:

>"The pressure of the Jews on President Roosevelt and on the State Department is becoming ever more powerful … The Jews are right now the leaders in creating a war psychosis which would plunge the entire world into war and bring about general catastrophe. This mood is becoming more and more apparent. …in their definition of democratic states, the Jews have also created real chaos: they have mixed together the idea of democracy and communism and have above all raised the banner of burning hatred against Nazism. This hatred has become a frenzy. It is propagated everywhere and by every means: in theaters, in the cinema, and in the press. The Germans are portrayed as a nation living under the arrogance of Hitler which wants to conquer the whole world and drown all of humanity in an ocean of blood. In conversations with Jewish press representatives I have repeatedly come up against the inexorable and convinced view that war is inevitable. This international Jewry exploits every means of propaganda to oppose any tendency towards any kind of consolidation and understanding between nations. In this way, the conviction is growing steadily but surely in public opinion here that the Germans and their satellites, in the form of fascism, are enemies who must be subdued by the 'democratic world.'"

Under Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal’s December 27th, 1945 diary entry also documents the immense pro-war ideological role Jews and America-Roosevelt played:

>“Played golf today with Joe Kennedy.  I asked him about his conversations with Roosevelt and Neville Chamberlain from 1938 on.  He said Chamberlain’s position in 1938 was that England had nothing with which to fight and that she could not risk going to war with Hitler... neither the French nor the British would have made Poland a cause of war if it had not been for the constant needling from Washington.... Chamberlain, he says, stated that America and the world Jews had forced England into the war.  In his telephone conversation with Roosevelt in the summer of 1939 the President kept telling him to put some iron up Chamberlain’s backside.”

After the war broke out, Chaim Weizmann mentioned the obvious: "this war is our war". In a speech on December 3, 1942, in New York:

>"We are not denying and are not afraid to confess that this war is our war and that it is waged for the liberation of Jewry… Stronger than all fronts together is our front, that of Jewry. We are not only giving this war our financial support on which the entire war production is based, we are not only providing our full propaganda power which is the moral energy that keeps this war going. The guarantee of victory is predominantly based on weakening the enemy forces, on destroying them in their own country, within the resistance. And we are the Trojan horses in the enemy's fortress. Thousands of Jews living in Europe constitute the principal factor in the destruction of our enemy. There, our front is a fact and the most valuable aid for victory."

We should also quote from a marvelous speech given by American hero at the time, the first man to fly across the Atlantic Ocean, Charles Lindbergh. On Sept. 11th, 1941, a year after the war had started but before the U.S. would join, he gave a speech where he mentioned the following (bold emphasis mine):

>"When this war started in Europe, it was clear that the American people were solidly opposed to entering it. Why shouldn't we be? We had the best defensive position in the world; we had a tradition of independence from Europe; and **the one time we did take part in a European war left European problems unsolved, and debts to America unpaid.National polls showed that when England and France declared war on Germany, in 1939, less than 10 percent of our population favored a similar course for America.** But there were various groups of people, here and abroad, whose interests and beliefs necessitated the involvement of the United States in the war. I shall point out some of these groups tonight, and outline their methods of procedure. In doing this, I must speak with the utmost frankness, for in order to counteract their efforts, we must know exactly who they are. The three most important groups who have been pressing this country toward war are the British, the Jewish and the Roosevelt administration…. As you all know, we were left with the debts of the last European war; and unless we are more cautious in the future than we have been in the past, we will be left with the debts of the present case. If it were not for her hope that she can make us responsible for the war financially, as well as militarily, **I believe England would have negotiated a peace in Europe many months ago, and be better off for doing so.** England has devoted, and will continue to devote every effort to get us into the war. We know that she spent huge sums of money in this country during the last war in order to involve us. Englishmen have written books about the cleverness of its use. We know that England is spending great sums of money for propaganda in America during the present war… The second major group I mentioned is the Jewish. It is not difficult to understand why Jewish people desire the overthrow of Nazi Germany. The persecution they suffered in Germany would be sufficient to make bitter enemies of any race. No person with a sense of the dignity of mankind can condone the persecution of the Jewish race in Germany. But no person of honesty and vision can look on their pro-war policy here today without seeing the dangers involved in such a policy both for us and for them. **Instead of agitating for war, the Jewish groups in this country should be opposing it in every possible way for they will be among the first to feel its consequences.** Tolerance is a virtue that depends upon peace and strength. History shows that it cannot survive war and devastations. A few far-sighted Jewish people realize this and stand opposed to intervention. But the majority still do not." 

Such reasonable and unfortunately prophetic statements led to accusations that Lindbergh was an anti-Semite even though, as his wife would tell a journalist in 1980, "in the 45 years I lived with him I never heard him make a remark against Jews, not a crack or a joke, neither did any of my children."

A catalyst to the above polarizations was the further growth of "Zionist Identity", especially in the United States which was the most powerful economy whose backing and support played a leading role in getting 'the civilized world' to ignore Hitler's legitimate concerns ultimately leading to World War Two.  

Keep in mind that the maniacal evil Hitler is not what created the justification for political Zionism. Zionism had already been growing in popularity before Hitler's rise. The already-discussed intellectual errors leading to antisemitism and Zionism were already expanding and spreading the polarization, and to various degrees this process, leading to the above language and mindset, helped create the "evil maniacal Hitler" long long before the war even started. Zionist ideology is about spreading the need for Jews to create their own state because there is evil out there that will slaughter them. Here we have Jabotinsky again spreading what is really the tribalistic and naive "good vs. evil" mindset which was spreading and attracting Jews to Zionism. In August 1938, over a year before World War Two began, he tells a Polish audience:

>"For three years I have been imploring you, Jews of Poland, the crown of world Jewry, appealing to you, warning you unceasingly that the catastrophe is nigh. My hair has turned white and I have grown old over these years, for my heart is bleeding that you, dear brothers and sisters, do not see the volcano which will soon begin to spew forth its fires of destruction. I see a horrible vision. Time is growing short for you to be spared. I know you cannot see it, for you are troubled and confused by everyday concerns…Listen to my words at this, the twelfth hour. For God’s sake: let everyone save himself, so long as there is time to do so, for time is running short."

Understandable, Jabotinsky had 0 clue how 'Jewish Identity' has co-evolved with other identities and the economy, thus he is left with naive "good vs. evil" analysis. Jabotinsky wisely felt like the support of the powerful governments he needed to bring about Zionism would give in if pressured by the public. In his autobiography, Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu explains Jabotinsky's strategy and how his own father, Benzion Netanyahu, persuaded Jabotinsky to focus his public pressure, not on England, but in the US. When Jabotinsky asked Benzion "Why?" he replied "Because you should be in America...The United States is a rising power in the world and its policy on Zionism will be critical. It has a large Jewish Community. Convince America and it will force Britain to change its policies." Bibi writes how his father:

>"...tried his hand with members of both parties... He wanted not only the politicians but also the professionals in the State Department, the Pentagon, and the White House to support a Jewish state....After World War II he felt it was necessary to directly influence the foreign policy bureucracy. The State Department was vehemently opposed to the establishment of a Jewish state and blocked access of Zionist delegations to many key decision makers. Capitalizing on the connections he had built, Father was taken up the ladded from one official to the next." 

Benzion would quickly reach US President Eisenhower. Bibi continues: 

>"My father succeeded because he understood how to generate political influence in America. He was the quintessential practitioner of Jabotinsky's formula: Influence governments through public opinion, influence public opinion by appealing to justice, influence leaders by appealing to interests."

Notice how as already mentioned twice, US State Department professionals were opposed to Zionism. But to the expanding 'Zionist Mindset', wise and impartial experts who oppose Zionism are ignorant of "the volcano which will soon begin to spew forth its fires of destruction," or worse, antisemites. 




