

#### Solving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and Russia-Ukraine war: A golden Opportunity for world-wide free-market economic education


Muslim immigration into European countries and the USA, the inevitable disaster-error that Zionism was bound to be as predicted by the early anti-Zionists-assimilationists-King-Crane-etc. and easily verified by over a century of monumental suffering-wars-tensions-polarization around the region with no sign of ending, are finally turning public opinion around. Again, massive intellectual errors that fool entire populations are part of humanity. From 1914 to 1918 countless European leaders-theologians-‘great minds’ fooled themselves into believing that it was necessary to slaughter each other across trenches in World War One for reasons today not one out of 100,000 remember. Millions of well-intentioned ideologues brought immense suffering upon themselves via Socialism-Communism (coercive-competitionless-monopoly-planning) during much of the 20th century. Bright people, with the best of intentions, ignorantly coercing each other via government has been the source of all of these problems and overcoming such ignorance is they key to solving them including our Zionist and ultimately Jew-Gentile misunderstandings.

What we have discussed helps us understand how there could never be a modern democratic country in the Middle East because such a democracy, rightfully reflecting the wishes and sense of justice of the Islamic world-public will always elect a critic of the Zionist error-fallacy (in its current form) and thus be seen as an “antisemite” since so many Jews have tied their own “identity” to a political-historical error. It certainly does NOT help that the non-Jewish-Gentile world is full of naïve thinkers who believe the usual jews-are-malicious-plotters tropes which then understandably causes Jews to justify the continuation-expansion of the current brand of Zionism and feel like co-existence would be impossible. Again, it is a mess for which no particular individual or group is to blame. This means that (as we have been seeing for 70+ years) the USA-Israel-Europe (the white non-Muslim world where white Ashkenazi-European Jews have tremendous support-influence-sympathy) will continue to have to either support pro-Israeli-status-quo dictators and-or continue military conflict-overthrows (Iraq, Libya, Syria, etc.) in the area at a staggering cost in terms of US massive military yearly consumption (1.2 trillion per year), immense human suffering for the millions of people in the areas who have to either live under the dictatorships or war-torn countries. 

The toppling of governments critical of and potentially dangerous to Israel-Zionism is a top priority of many American leaders and advisors, especially since many of them are understandably Zionist Jews themselves. The Zionist mindset-identity understandably spread throught the minds of Jews themselves as we have already documented, and continued its expansion throught the minds of sympathetic supporters playing a major role in WWII, and eventually came to dominate the upper echelons of the sort of white-Christian world culminating in the immense influence in American Foreign Policy of the so-called 'Neoconservatives', a group of largely secular Zionist Jews who understandably see the world as 'Civilized white democratic secular Israel' (obviously the good civilized people) vs. the despotic antisemitic backward Muslim world and their allies. These 'great intellectuals' can easily fool themselves with an immense aura of superiority and wisdom because they can easily find Muslim leaders say wild antisemitic things. This is all they need to justify their can-do-no-wrong-Jew vs. evil-antisemites worldview. Again, in a superficial way, Zionism, and the resulting constant need to use military force to prevent its reaction by the Muslim world is understandable. Just like simple economic ignorance led to arrogant Soviet leaders pushing disastrous economic myths, so have these 'Neoconservatives' pushed naive 'good vs. evil' mythology that is inevitably such a core part of Zionism. Again, as with the spread of Socialist mythology, Socialist myths are simple to understand and thus move quickly, while understanding how freedom really works takes a bit more effort, thus the right ideas move much slower sometimes leading to Socialist disasters. Similarly, it is easy to point the finger at poorly educated traumatized Muslims (especially in Gaza) and their antisemitic statements, while much, much harder to properly understand how Zionist ideology has inadvertently played an important role in such extremism. Again, just like complex cultural factors, NOT CONSPIRACY!, led to over-representation of 'Jewish Identity' in both Socialism and Capitalism, we again see an immense over-representation of Jews in the upper echelons of the American Foreign Policy-Military bureaucracy leading to the constant destruction of countries in the Middle East. All the "good" freedom-loving people in the USA know that the Islamic world is antisemitic. The Soviets-Communists mistakenly saw Americans as greedy-selfish Capitalist exploiters, and Americans and people like Ronald Reagan mistakenly saw the Soviet Union as "an evil empire", yet somehow eventually regardless of countless misunderstandings the Soviet Union got a Mikhail Gorbachev who helped end the Communist error. Civilization needs an Israeli Gorbachev who can help end or greatly revise the current form of Zionism.  



In a very revealing interview Westley Clark recalled how just 10 days after the September 11th, 2001 terrorist attack he was informed of plans originating within top American leadership whose goal was to take out 7 countries (all highly critical of Zionism) in 5 years. Iraq, Libya and Syria were part of this list.

Why did we destroy Afghanistan, then Iraq, and so on? Who is caught up in a world of 'good civilized homo sapiens vs. evil uncivilized 'terrorist' homo sapiens'? It is so easy to see once you understand the co-evolution of Jew-Gentile 'Identities', the various misunderstandings, polarizations, etc. Here we have Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spreading the 'good vs. irrational evil' mindset through the US Congress, encouraging wars, etc. a year later in Sept. 12, 2002:

>"...if you take out Saddam's regime, I guarantee you that it will have enormous positive reverberations on the region. And I think that people sitting right next door in Iran, young people and many others will say the time of such regimes of such despots is gone."

>"...there is no question whatsoever that Saddam is seeking and is working and is advancing towards the development of nuclear weapons. No question whatsoever...Iraq is a very big country it is not the size of Monte Carlo it is a big country and I believe that even free and unfettered inspections will not uncover these portable manufacturing sites of mass death....the application of power is the most important thing in winning the war on terrorism...the 3 principles of winning the war on terror are the 3 Ws, winning, winning, and winning. The more victories you amass the easier the next victory becomes. The first victory in Afghanistan makes a second victory in Iraq that much easier. The second victory in Iraq will make the third victory that much easier"

"...today the United States must destroy the same regime because a nuclear-armed Saddam will place the security of our entire [world at risk."](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CHRG-107hhrg83514/html/CHRG-107hhrg83514.htm)


Does this mean that Netanyahu and the 'Neocons' are some 'evil plotters', of course not, Netanyahu's wisdom regarding free-markets has been a crucial factor in Israel's pro-Capitalism economic policies and resulting growing economic prosperity, but again, for understandable reasons, as with Albert Einstein, sometimes bright people can fall for disastrous 'isms' like Socialism and Zionism. 


From the understandable perspective of many Israeli leaders, they prefer to be surrounded by rag-tag Islamic militias than by stable powerful governments that can afford militaries or perhaps a nuclear bomb. If this means chaos and misery for millions in the region, that is their problem, they should not be electing or putting up with leaders that want to dismantle the "Jewish state of Israel". Jews understandably feel like they have suffered long enough by traditionally being discriminated minorities living within Christian or Islamic majorities. Former Israeli ambassador to the U.S. Michael Oren perfectly described the Jewish-Israeli mindset with respect to the chaos around the region, and Syria in particular, when he told The Jerusalem Post in Sept. 2013:

>“The initial message about the Syrian issue was that we always wanted Bashar Assad to go, we always preferred the bad guys who weren’t backed by Iran to the bad guys who were backed by Iran…”

Referring to al-Qaeda which is fighting to topple Bashar Al-Assad and bring their tyrannical fundamentalist version of Islam to about 18 million Syrians including about 2 million Christians who have been there since the early days of Christianity, Mr. Oren says:

>“We understand that they[al-Qaeda] are pretty bad guys…Still, the greatest danger to Israel is by the strategic arc that extends from Tehran, to Damascus to Beirut. And we saw the Assad regime as the keystone in that arc. That is a position we had well before the outbreak of hostilities in Syria. With the outbreak of hostilities we continued to want Assad to go.”

Again, one can see how this is understandable from an Israeli-Jewish-Identity perspective. As already mentioned, greatly complicating matters is the fact that Putin-Russia is in a war against Ukraine which is led by Zelenskyy who is Jewish. President Biden is literally surrounded by Zionist Jews who inadvertently push the simplistic "good vs. evil" narrative that understandably has become such an integral part of their world-view. Biden's closest advisor, White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain is a Zionist Jew, so is the Secretary of State Antony Blinken and countless other top-level US government officials. Legendary journalist Seymour Hersh documented how the blowing up of the Nord Stream pipeline that supplied cheap Russian natural gas to Germany-Europe and implying it was Russia, an obvious and horrendous act of war whose negligent cruelty also led millions of Germans and Europeans to pay exorbitant energy prices, was heavily pushed primarily by Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs Victoria Nuland, Secretary of State Anthony Blinken, and  United States National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, all three are naïve ‘good vs evil’ Zionist Jews. Once again, it is vitally important to see this ‘good vs. evil’ Zionification of American and European foreign policy, NOT as some sinister conspiracy by Jews as unfortunately so many naïve thinkers believe, but as the evolution of complex ideological factors and misunderstandings for which no group of homo sapiens is to blame. We just need enough people to be aware of these complex factors, sympathize with how each side, the misguided antisemites, and the destroy-the-antisemites-and-their-allies-even-if-it-bankrupts-and-destroys-the-planet Jews, have inadvertently come to see the world and act the way they do, and hopefully eventually solve this mess. 


It is discouraging and reflective of just how intellectually lost mankind is to see how even well-educated people who have the best of intentions and have spent a lifetime looking at this conflict can end up vilifying each other. One of Israel’s most popular scholarly defenders, Dr. Alan Dershowitz has written a book whose title is very revealing: “The Case Against Israel’s Enemies: Exposing Jimmy Carter and Others Who Stand in the Way of Peace”.  Even a well-intentioned nice old man like former US President Jimmy Carter finds himself on the wrong side of good vs. evil (from Dershowitz’s perspective) for having researched the history and circumstances which shape the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and arriving at conclusions which have been highly critical of the Israeli government. In an interview with Shalom TV, Dershowitz said the following about Jimmy Carter:

>"Jimmy Carter has literally become such an anti-Israel bigot that there is a kind of special place in hell reserved for somebody like that. He has no sympathy or understanding for the suffering of the Jewish people, the plight of the Jewish people, he loves every Muslim extremist [he can find."](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-FscSs-_IL0&NR=1)

When it comes to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, getting pigeonholed into “good” or “evil” is very easy. As the title of Dershowitz’s book implies, Carter is not just a man who might disagree with the Israeli government and its policies, he is an enemy of Israel, something truly sinister. Ben Shapiro is another increasingly popular conservative Jewish voice who I believe is making great contributions when it comes to preaching free-market economics and criticizing [the massive economic ignorance that plagues "the left"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SIAyudtNicY), but perhaps understandably so since he is Jewish, he wrote a scary critique of Carter whose title says it all ["Jimmy Carter: Emissary of Evil"](https://townhall.com/columnists/benshapiro/2008/04/16/jimmy-carter-emissary-of-evil-n832387) and starts with "Jimmy Carter is an evil man. It is painful to label a past president of the United States as a force for darkness." What hope is there for average politicians and citizens who know even less about the conflict?


So without further ado let us propose the following as a simple starting point. The purpose of this plan is not even to resolve the conflict, the conflict will resolve itself as enough people in the area see how freedom, when properly understood and applied, can solve this mess and quickly get us on a path to unimaginable prosperity. Basically, since economic ignorance leads to antisemitism which leads to Zionism in its current separatist-ethnocentric way and led to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and all that grows from it, we get rid of the economic ignorance which gets rid of the antisemitism which will evolve the character of Jews-Zionism in a manner where what used to be separatist-coercive-exclusive-ethnocentrism becomes welcoming brotherly love and everyone lives with equal rights in a state free of the theocratic ethnocentrism and kumbaya we reach world peace. What we propose below should not even be seen as a solution, but a framework which we can use to eventually solve the problem and educate everyone about the benefits of free-markets. 

We propose a single country-state with a *mostly* NON-Democratic government where everyone has equal rights. Name and flag can be determined in some future time but should obviously not single out or exclude any group of people. Two-state solutions are based on old hatreds-ideologies and tribalistic ape-"identity" politics and are insulting to humanity and what we are capable of and should expect for our future. [The government should be minimal in the sense that](https://mises.org/wire/voluntaryist-constitution) it should only be involved in protecting private property and act as a sort of default set of rules-guidelines when more local communities do not define them, and should clearly be forbidden from ever going into education, elderly care, any kind of socialized medicine, or education, etc. This is NOT up to democratic change and is important so that Jews will not fear a larger Muslim population eventually taking their freedoms away, or their wealth, which would definitely be the case if they were forced to pay for massive public sector welfare-state-bureaucracies attempting to provide equal access to education, health services, elderly care, etc. that the economically-ignorant-though-well-intentioned-public always falls for. Jews and Muslims and Christians, everyone, will have the obvious freedom to pool their wealth to create their own privately funded educational systems-charities and be free to discriminate if they so wish based on religion, sex, whatever their customs or free individuals agree upon. The hyper-religious Jews who want to define who is or is not a Jew, marriage customs, etc. can create their contracts-laws associate-disassociate with whoever they want, they just can’t coerce others. Palestinians who were expelled during various wars and their descendants will obviously have the right to go back to the lands they were expelled from. If the lands have since been developed a simple starting solution to the potential conflicts and a way to provide some restitution to the Palestinians and help get this area on a rapid path to amazing prosperity is as follows:

Jews keep all lands and homes and buildings they currently have developed and are clearly being used for productive purposes, even the settlements in the West Bank. My guess is that this actual amount of land is probably no more than 40% percent of the land. Then we take the other 60% percent, and using some simple software we distribute it to all Palestinians and their descendants who were dispossessed thus privatizing most of the country. A similar effort should be made so that Jews who were expelled from European and Muslim countries can regain their lost property.

So far this simple framework accomplishes the following:

Jews should be pretty happy, no fear of a demographic majority that can then interfere with your freedom and-or property, no need to pay for the education of non-Jews or other Jews for that matter. The more religious Jews who have a super strong connection to the land can live, travel, buy land everywhere. No draconian uprooting or potentially economically devastating disruptions.

Palestinians regain their freedom and land. Since this minimal state will have minimal-no taxes or regulations it will quickly blossom in prosperity. The land will quickly increase in value, providing much deserved compensation for the Palestinians. The entire country will skyrocket in socioeconomic prosperity and serve as an example-beacon of progress. Loudly clamoring for a solution along these lines brings us free-marketeers tremendous advantages. We will be the only ones actually making noise and bringing attention to a rather simple-and-thus-easy-to-spread viral plan. It gives us an opportunity to teach and sort of piggyback basic economics as we explain to people how prosperity will skyrocket helping us in our more ambitious world-wide free-market educational efforts, which is obviously the key to everything. As things are right now, such a solution seems impossible, but with clever marketing we can succeed at spreading the necessary ideas so all parties can be persuaded without any coercive-violent-troublesome mandates. By making the above the basis for some future peace, even if that future is a few years away, it would be enough to stop the fighting and get excited about a real workable peace and its numerous benefits. The above may seem like a huge sacrifice and gamble for many Israelis, but as Menachem Begin tells us:

>"There is room here for the Jews to settle. For the Arabs to live in equality of rights together in peace and human dignity."

>"There are difficulties in peace.... There are pains in peace....There are victims for peace... All of these are preferred to the victims of war...Our deepest desire is peace."

If we are to reach a quick peace and prosperity we must first have a simple plan for it and people who believe it can be achieved. We simply have no choice, we either make Misesians of everyone, or we blow ourselves up.

Regarding the Russia-Ukraine war. Easy. Instead of having either Putin’s or Zelensky’s governments decide how people in the contested areas run their lives, we should allow the people themselves decide how they do so and as with the Zionist error use this chaos as an opportunity to educate the people there and people all over the world how freedom, self-rule, decentralization, and the emerging competition of ideas and cooperative character that emerges from this is the key to socioeconomic harmony. We propose the following:

1. Immediate ceasefire and complete demilitarization of all contested areas. Russia’s military leaves and Ukraine’s military does not occupy the area.
2. A new country or political-legal entity is created and adopts a well-thought-out constitution which seeks to maximize freedom and the emerging peace and competition of ideas that emerges from it. Fortunately mankind already has a great starting point via [‘The Voluntaryist Constitution’](https://mises.org/wire/voluntaryist-constitution)
3. This new country should have no restrictions regarding immigration, travel, or business with citizens from Ukraine, EU, or Russian federation.
4. In order to quickly increase the wealth and prosperity of Ukrainians who have suffered immensely in terms of lives lost and property damaged, using some simple software most of the land in the contested areas which had been under the control of the Ukrainian government should be privatized and distributed among the people who lived in such areas. And we hope that the Russian government as a gesture of good will also give land in Russia.
5. The UN needs to have an internationally recognized and respected way for groups of people to have the freedom to secede from large and bloated governmental bureaucracies and create their own governments so that we move away from coercive and competition immune governmental bodies and we introduce competition in governance.


