

#### Cultural Evolution.

Knowing that 'private property' is the simple tradition from which emerges a chain-reaction of incentives which creates civilization, we can look at the past and easily see that those cultures whose customs inadvertently became more peaceful and thus less violent, extended peace, friendship, trade to those outside the tribe, etc., in other words, respected ‘private property’ and thus individual liberty more and more, would inadvertently gain the benefits of superior ‘competitive knowledge discovery’, become more advanced-powerful, and as they grew, they would inadvertently spread the very customs and evolving economic system (capitalism) that allowed them to reach such relative heights. This ‘cultural evolution’ happened mostly without the design, intention, or the “reason” of the slightly smarter apes. A great example of this process was the ‘Protestant Reformation’. For centuries the Catholic Church’s traditions-myths held immense coercive-monopoly-competitionless power which prevented or retarded individual freedom and resulting ‘competitive knowledge discovery’. In the early 1500s, among other religious reinterpretations, Martin Luther preached that indulgences (payments to the Catholic Church to help one go to heaven) were unnecessary, that a person could go to heaven by believing in Christ without the Catholic Church’s approval, and that the Bible itself, not the Church’s edicts-interpretations was what mattered. This helped reduce the coercive-monopoly power of the Catholic Church and spark a pro-freedom and thus emergent ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ that would lead to skyrocketing rates of innovation-production-prosperity in Europe-Christendom. Now, very important! Did Martin Luther “reason” that his religious reinterpretations would accelerate ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ leading to global Capitalism and Homo sapiens’ recent sky-rocketing prosperity? Of course not! Just like solitary cells millions of years ago inadvertently created the respiratory-circulatory-nervous-etc. “systems” that led to multicellular organisms without ‘designing them’, so is the free-market-Capitalism “indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design” (Adam Ferguson) or as Carl Menger writes, it arose “as the unintended product of historical development”. Hayek elaborates regarding the tradition of 'private property' and thus all the emerges from it:

“…I am quite convinced nobody invented it for a known purpose, and to me the proof of this is that even now hardly anybody yet understands what the advantages of private property and the market society are.” (Hayek essay “Individual and Collective Aims” published in “On Toleration” ISBN 0–19–827529–3)



>“We have never designed our economic system. We were not intelligent enough for that. We have stumbled into it and it has carried us to unforeseen heights and given rise to ambitions which may yet lead us to destroy it.”
