

### The Evolution of Money: Menger's Flux-Capacitor Idea of the Social Sciences.

In our earlier example showing the benefits of trade and resulting 'division of labor-knowledge', what if Tom was not interested in Mark's pastries and wanted a blanket instead? Mark would have to find the blanket-maker, hope he was interested in his pastries, make the trade, and finally trade the blanket for the basket. But what if the blanket-maker was not interested in pastries either and wanted wine instead? One gets the point. This problem, of having to run around setting up intermediate trades to make the trade you really want is commonly referred to as “The Double Coincidence of Wants” problem because for a trade to happen you need the coincidence that both parties are interested in the goods they have available for trade. We must always keep in mind that biological order-life, whether it is the cells that make up a person, and therefore the person and therefore the social order, is in a constant cycle of production and consumption of wealth. Simply being alive has a cost, in other words, the amount of wealth that must be consumed in order to stay alive. The man who spends 3 hours setting up a trade is consuming food-energy, his family and all that depends on his production will be consuming as well. The more time-wealth you have to spend-consume running around setting up the intermediate trades the higher the 'cost of transaction' becomes and the less time you have for production, and there will come a point where you will be more productive hunting and gathering and abandoning all the benefits of trade than spending all day setting up intermediate trades while you starve to death. So the great benefits of trade like the division of labor and knowledge which is necessary for civilization can only be realized if we solve the double coincidence of wants problem. 

This is where the evolution of money plays a vital role. Founder of the 'Austrian School of Economics' Carl Menger’s explanation of the emergence of money and its ramifications is the “flux-capacitor” idea of the social sciences. It is the idea that makes ‘time-travel’-‘understanding society’ possible and is in all likelihood the most important insight to have coalesced in the mind of a human being.

As people traded, they realized that there were some goods that most people were willing to trade for, not necessarily because they wanted to consume them, but because they knew they could later use them to trade for the things they really wanted. For example, let's assume Mark is now a member of a 1,000 member market-oriented society where goats were very common. People could use them for their skin-fur, milk, and meat, and most households had at least a few. Because of this, even if Mark already had more goats than he needed for milk-skin-meat, he would still be willing to accept them as payment for his pastries because he knew that given the goats’ popularity there was a high chance that he could later trade the goats for the other goods he really needed. Even if the 'basket-maker'-Tom did not want Mark's pastries there would be a good chance that he would accept one of his goats, and even if he didn’t want the goat either and Mark had to contact the blanket-maker, if he did accept the goat it would have saved Mark from having to see if the wine-maker would trade with him. Essentially what happens is that by offering to trade a more popular good Mark increases the chances that his attempt at trading will be successful so the average number of intermediate trades goes down the more widely accepted the goats are.

Once people started using a common ‘medium of exchange’(the goats) the double coincidence of wants problem went away and goats became the money in the society. The more people, say Adam, Biff, and Cindy, started accepting goats in exchange for their products, not just because they valued the goats due to their milk-fur-meat, but because they too realized that they could later trade them for what they wanted, in other words, the more people valued them as money, the more incentive others, say Dan, Ellen, and Frank, would have to also accept goats as a form of payment because they saw how Adam, Biff, and Cindy would later accept the goats as well. Goats now were valuable for 4 things, their skin-fur, milk, meat, and as money, as something people value because others will trade for it, therefore making the goats valuable and tradable with an even greater number of people. More people begin to accept goats as payment because they realize they can trade them with more people, leading to more people noticing that more people are accepting goats and so on, until eventually the majority of people, if not all, would be using goats and thus goats became the major source of money.

Without money one trades two specific goods for each other but a lot of unproductive time and effort must be wasted making intermediary trades to trade for what you really need. Using money two quick trades take place, first one quickly trades a specific good for the generally accepted good (money), then one quickly trades the generally accepted money for what one really needs. Mark would sell a batch of his coconut pastries for money (a goat), and then quickly trade the goat for the basket or knife, assuming everyone accepts goats by now. Thanks to money, very little time, effort, and consumption needs to take place while one does the trading, leaving that time/wealth available for increased production and growth. In other words, the 'transaction costs' have been greatly reduced.

In the example above as well as in the real world it is important to note that money was not a deliberate invention on the part of any individual or government. What eventually becomes money naturally arises as it is inadvertently selected by people following their own selfish interests. By inadvertently overcoming the ‘Double Coincidence of Wants’ problem, these societies inadvertently enjoyed the benefits that trade brings to a social order. As Menger tells us:

>"As each economizing individual becomes increasingly more aware of his economic interest, he is led by this interest, without any agreement, without legislative compulsion, and even without regard to the public interest, to give his commodities in exchange for other, more saleable, commodities, even if he does not need them for any immediate [consumption purpose."](https://mises.org/library/nature-and-origin-money) (Menger, 2007, p. 260)


The easier it is to trade, the more fluid, and faster the previously mentioned benefits of trade occur and the faster the society that benefits from them will be able to constantly rearrange its social order into increasingly more productive and technologically advanced states.

Given that money greatly facilitates trade and therefore greatly increases the rate at which a society progresses we have to now consider what qualities lead to the best money. For example, let's say a society uses elephants for money, elephants are big and indivisible. You might be interested in trading some of your elephants for blankets but you feel like one elephant for one blanket is way too much, unfortunately you can't offer a quarter of an elephant. Elephants can also run away, get sick and die, and can get very angry and destroy property. So a society that used elephants for trading might miss out on many trading opportunities. So what are some of the qualities that make good money?

1. Wide acceptance as a medium of exchange. You want the money to be accepted by as many people as possible, this allows you to trade for the most amount of goods and services. Goods and services that now become available to your calculating brain.

2. It should be seen as valuable by itself, like gold for example. Gold can be used as money yet it is valuable for ornaments and industrial purposes. This greatly helps meet quality #1. If something is valuable by itself, more people are willing to trade for it which means that you will be able to trade this money for a greater amount of goods and services.

3. You want money to be durable. You don’t want your money to be burnt away, or die or run away from you like an elephant can. You want it to be a durable store of value.

4. Divisible and easily aggregated. You want to be able to divide the money into smaller units to enable trades for items of low value and you also want to be able to combine your money into large quantities to facilitate expensive trades.

5. Convenience. Money should be convenient to carry and transfer.

6. Money should be relatively scarce or hard to manufacture. If the money is easy to manufacture, then people have more incentive to create money than to actually produce real wealth. If dirt is accepted as money then people will just dig dirt and offer that in exchange for goods from fools. The economic pie is increased by dirt, while it is reduced as the dirt-making people consume the real wealth they were able to exchange the dirt for. A society that uses an abundant thing like dirt for money would have the products it produces brought into the possession of people that came up with the best way of creating money-dirt as opposed to the people that added useful products or services. Once again try to picture it from high above. When Alan started using money to build his castle, the most important things in society, the people and their brains were drawn and directed away from productive activities that were good for the whole social order, activities which increased the economic pie of useful goods. The useless and damaging knowledge of counterfeiting was rewarded. Given that money can be used to restructure the actions of the social order it is of vital importance to societies that those who obtain money do so by producing things of value to society, in other words, by increasing the economic pie of socially desirable goods, goods that people are willing to freely trade their money-wealth for. If Alan would have produced many great things of value to society in exchange for money and then used his large savings, which came from previous socially beneficial production to build his castle, although the effects would have been similar(prices would have first declined as Alan removed money from economy as he saved it, and later increased as Alan injected his savings back into the economy), society would have benefited in the past from all the great things Alan produced which would have strengthened it or improved it in some way. The destructive effects of inflation will plague societies that make the mistake of using money that can be easily manufactured or counterfeited. Their productive structures will be distorted leading to a weaker and less productive social order. Good money forces every brain to think of a way to add something to the economic pie that society values and is willing to trade for(for most of us we add our labor). It forces everyone to always take part in the endless pie-increasing-cycle of production-trade-consumption. Good money can be trusted to show the optimal relationships between the values of goods in society and make efficient social calculation possible. Bad money will cause a society to have its structure distorted for the benefit of the people controlling the money supply like Alan did in our simple example, or as is the case in real life, governments and their well-intended-yet-economically-ignorant tribal politicians. Once ideologues-politicians-technocrats can just acquire wealth by creating money, whether malicious, or just economically clueless, they can bypass the will of citizens and  "Taxation without representation" is bypassed. 


Cattle were the most commonly used form of money in early civilizations, Menger again:

 
>"In the earliest periods of economic development, cattle seem to have been the most saleable commodity among most peoples of the ancient world. Domestic animals constituted the chief item of the wealth of every individual among nomads and peoples passing from a nomadic economy to agriculture. Their marketability extended literally to all economizing individuals, and the lack of artificial roads combined with the fact that cattle transported themselves(almost without cost in the primitive stages of civilization!) to make them saleable over a wider geographical area than most other commodities…The trade and commerce of the most cultured people of the ancient world, the Greeks … showed no trace of coined money even as late as the time of Homer. Barter still prevailed, and wealth consisted of herds of cattle. Payments were made in cattle. Prices were reckoned in cattle. And cattle were used for the payment of fines… Among the Arabs, the cattle standard existed as late as [the time of Mohammed."](https://books.google.com/books?id=pFva23_vWzkC&pg=PA263&lpg=PA263&dq=%22In+the+earliest+periods+of+economic+development,+cattle+seem+to+have+been+the+most+saleable%22&source=bl&ots=ibFegT8Qx5&sig=ACfU3U0B3UP9h1e5nYML-xcn9LJt9J13ig&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjsi4a2tPnrAhXOpFkKHXvPD1UQ6AEwBHoECAgQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22In%20the%20earliest%20periods%20of%20economic%20development%2C%20cattle%20seem%20to%20have%20been%20the%20most%20saleable%22&f=false) (Menger, 2007, p. 263)


Just like complex environmental factors create selective pressures that favor the spread-emergence of certain genes-information, the advantages of living in cities allowed for superior ideas to emerge and spread faster, so incentives-pressures to "select" a more suitable money for city-life arose leading to a change from the 'animal standard' to the metallic standard and eventually by the early 20th century gold had been 'naturally selected' as the best money. Let's briefly discuss why. It is widely accepted as money, everyone knows gold is valuable and willing to accept it as a form of payment. Gold does not rust or burn away, it can be stored and not decay for an eternity as far as people are concerned, it is durable. It can easily be melted and divided into smaller pieces of any size and also combined to make large purchases. It is easy to carry around. It is very heavy but by the time it gets too heavy to carry you are making very large and infrequent purchases. BUT MOST IMPORTANTLY...Gold is relatively scarce or hard to acquire. If the money is easy to manufacture then people have more incentive to create money than to actually produce real wealth which would weaken the social order relative to others who had better money.

By the early 20th century gold had arisen as the best money. It met all the criteria previously described, helped people all over the world trade and therefore expand the division of labor and knowledge all over the world, bringing great benefits to those societies that embarked on trade. It is important to note that just like money was not consciously “invented” by people neither was the gold standard. Mankind invented money and the gold standard as much as it invented us.

Let us remind ourselves that since gold can't be "printed" and thus easily increased-controlled by a single body which can then use it to warp the social order via central planning like Alan did, the 'gold standard' inadvertently made it much harder for governments to grow thus keeping more wealth in the pie-increasing-innovating-peaceful competitive private sector. A bad idea that requires directly taking wealth from people is much easier to correct than one which can acquire the wealth it needs by just creating money and sort of fooling the public-itself. The gold standard made it much harder for the slightly smarter apes to go to war with each another because the true costs-consumption of war will easily reflect itself in painful higher taxes and thus a proper cost-benefit analysis of the war by the public-king will help the ideas of peace and mutual understanding compete with the tribal-innate good-us vs. evil-them. But with inflation-money-creation, such evolved constraints-wisdom which helped prevent war and central planning are discarded. It should then come as no surprise that the most horrific disasters the slightly smarter apes get themselves into, massive world-civil wars and the viral spread of central planning ideologies to various degrees have coincided with the abandonment of the evolution-created-international-gold-standard and a move towards the "rationally" constructed "fiat"-paper-electronic convoluted mess we have today. In the old days, rulers-kings would sometimes run out of gold with which to pay their troops and the wars would end, but this would not be the case as central banking began to emerge, giving "great leaders" a new way with which to sustain and prolong to even more severe levels the destruction that war and central planning brings. As Prof. Salerno mentions in one of his many great lectures at the Ludwig von Mises Institute:

>“Wars have invariably been financed by printing money since the invention of paper money. Indeed, it might be said that paper fiat money and central banks were invented mainly to finance wars. The first irredeemable paper currency in the Western world was issued in 1690 by the British colony of Massachusetts in order to pay its soldiers in its sporadic wars of plunder against the French colony of Quebec. The first central bank in history, the Bank of England, was established in 1694 to finance the mercantilist and imperialist foreign policy of the Whig party that had gained control of [the British government.”](http://www.mises.org/multimedia/mp3/misescircle-ny06/Salerno.mp3) (Salerno, 2006)


The monopolizing of the banking and financial institutions by governments and their “experts” and regulations has not only helped create all sorts of crises, it has also retarded the further evolution of financial institutions themselves, with bitcoin and cryptocurrencies being the new exception-competition. The following quote by Hayek captures all this beautifully:

>“…Like morality, law, language, and biological organisms, monetary institutions result from spontaneous order — and are similarly susceptible to variation and selection. Yet monetary institutions turn out to be the least satisfactorily developed of all spontaneously grown formations. Few will, for example, dare to claim that their functioning has improved during the last seventy years or so, since what had been an essentially automatic mechanism based on an international metallic standard was replaced, under the guidance of experts, by deliberate national ‘monetary policies’. Indeed, humankind’s experiences with money have given good reason for distrusting it, but not for reasons commonly supposed. Rather, the selective processes are interfered with here more than anywhere else: selection by evolution is prevented by government monopolies that make competitive experimentation impossible.” (Hayek, 1988, p. 103)

And again, more concisely:

>“the basic tools of civilisation – language, morals, law and money – are all results of spontaneous growth and not of design, and of the last two organized power has got hold and thoroughly [corrupted them” ](https://books.google.com/books?id=9IpEBAAAQBAJ&pg=PA495&lpg=PA495&dq=%22last+two+organized+power+has+got+hold+and+thoroughly+corrupted+them%22&source=bl&ots=uofnkCSJes&sig=ACfU3U1sbjb7_naq8xk8-ZqOAzSakIjSeQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwj37avy_uLsAhUjwVkKHa0iBaMQ6AEwA3oECAEQAg#v=onepage&q=%22last%20two%20organized%20power%20has%20got%20hold%20and%20thoroughly%20corrupted%20them%22&f=false) (Hayek, 1981, p. 163)

Consider the following, right now you are an incredibly complex order, yet going without oxygen for a few minutes will cause a sort of “economic chaos” in your body that will make it impossible to recover from even if oxygen becomes available again. The same thing WILL happen to the social organism if the world-wide division of labor and monetary system breaks down, perhaps even for just a few months or less, or if a few key cities or financial institutions-system are disabled in either a cyber-attack or inevitable bug-error, or as we are seeing due to the Coronavirus because the apes scare themselves into totalitarian paralysis. Just imagine what would happen if the electronic systems that coordinate how the banks interact with the Federal Reserve breaks down for just a few weeks, and that for whatever reason credit cards and checks or transfers don't work during that time thus leading to a complete breakdown of monetary profit-loss order-sustaining calculations leading to a rapid pie-decreasing chaos. Totally clueless bureaucrats-apes and "great leaders" might succeed in getting enough people behind them to carry out some master plan, but the apes would consume more wealth-order than it actually produces as it "succeeds" in carrying it out thus continuing the socioeconomic destruction because ONLY freedom and privatization with a sound monetary system and profit-loss calculation in the private sector can create socioeconomic order. A modern gold standard where real physical gold is distributed throughout society might prevent against such disaster. But discussing hypothetical improvements to our eventual monetary chaos is beyond our scope. We just want to understand the potential fragility of the socioeconomic order since it is something that has sort of evolved without hardly anyone really understanding how it works and the slightly smarter apes can destroy it at any moment like they did during Lenin's Communist-Bolshevik revolution which we'll soon discuss.

We have discussed how from the tradition of private property(1) emerges the ‘freedom to trade’(2) which leads to the emergence of the ‘division of labor and information’(3), ‘competitive knowledge discovery’(4) which helps civilize our morals and discover the truth, and ‘economic calculation’(5). The emergence of these 5 and other parts of 'the market process' are as unplanned-undesigned as money whose evolution was needed to enable the above to function in large numbers of people. This is key for understanding why we live in this complex society which hardly anyone understands and with our "reason" we constantly attempt to destroy via central planning. 

Again, we are slightly smarter tribal apes that have been "civilized" and turned into members of Spencer's "Social Organism" by the same process that turned solitary cells into complex multi-cellular organisms. "Processes of selective evolution". If every cell in our bodies suddenly had the same intelligence and ability to reason that we do, including our current understanding of biology, they would wake up to a bewildering complexity and attempt to use their "reason" to impose a supposedly superior plan-order and while doing so wrecking the far more intelligent systems that evolution-competition had fine-tuned for billions of years. The "reason" of so many intelligent and well educated intellectuals during the last couple of centuries led them to attack private property and the freedom that grows from it because they erroneously thought it led to 'exploitative capitalism', 'social injustices', and thought that central planning-regulation by well-intentioned-educated "experts" and resulting competitionless-monopolistic bureaucracies would lead to far more prosperity. They were wrong of course, their "reason" proved to be far less intelligent than the evolved traditions which protected-invented "private property" and the 'market process' that emerged from it which hardly anyone at the time (or today) understood.

