

### Prices and the Impossibility of 'Central Planning'-Socialism-Communism.

How much wealth had to be consumed in order to produce a gallon of gasoline that sells in Seattle for $3.50? Or a pound of beef that sells in London for $5.35? We can't know for sure, however, we can be fairly certain that it was less than the advertised price which on average must include the costs. The price of any item in the world lets us know that there is an order at that particular place and time that is coordinated by information that can produce the item while consuming less than the advertised price. THAT IS AMAZING! This allow goods to be purchased and combined in a manner that ensures that the combination (like a car) can easily have a price set that properly accounts for the costs-consumption of the whole (car) by just adding the prices of the parts used to produce it (wheels, glass, robotics, labor, etc.), parts which themselves had a price set that included their costs-consumption and so on, each part-input managed-ordered by entrepreneurs-brains-CPUs with highly specialized time-and-place specific information who are always using profit-loss calculation to ensure they are increasing the economic pie. The concept-tradition of 'private property' plays a vital role here as well, it is not until matter-things are privately owned, that they are controlled-coordinated by brains-CPUs that are incentivized to discover the best information with which to reorder-coordinate them in the most productive-profitable way possible.

How do we know whether it is a good idea to build an airport or a school at a particular time and place and also get the necessary wealth without coercion or making criminals out of people who may not want to contribute to them? Only entrepreneurs at those times and places can 'discover' if there are enough people whose lives would be improved by trading their wealth for such wealth (airport or school), and how to build them in a profitable and competitive way. The information needed to create-coordinate the social order, like whether to produce cars, or buildings, or pizzas, where to do so, what prices to set, and most importantly, how to produce them in a manner that more wealth is produced than consumed, is information that can only be created by free people dispersed throughout the world thus rendering central planning ideologies like Socialism-Communism IMPOSSIBLE regardless of the good intentions of their members or their intelligence. To see why this is the case consider the following example, a Cuban restaurant in Miami Beach sells a picadillo dish (ground beef, plantains, rice) for $8. Perhaps $1 might be profit, and $7 will be spent in costs, in other words, in the necessary consumption of wealth needed to produce the meal-wealth, things like equipment-electricity-food, and everything employees and their families will consume at home (food, energy) thanks to their paychecks that came from the $7-meal. The businessman discovered 1) that there are enough customers nearby willing to patronize the restaurant at the $8-meal price which necessitates taking into account customer's already existing local competitive options thus providing an improvement in society, and 2) how to reorder $7 worth of stuff(labor-supplies-etc.) to produce the meal. If he sets prices too high, customers will choose other superior existing competing options and thus fail to improve the social order. If he sets prices too low, he won't cover costs and cause more consumption than production thus shrinking the economic pie. These are two vital pieces of information that are impossible for a central planning body to discover and helps explain why every time Communism has been attempted the result has been a much faster rate of consumption than production and eventual famine-starvation-chaos-death. Again, only free entrepreneurs dispersed throughout society, not government "experts" in a central location, are at the right time and place needed to discover people's desires and how to order a business or section of society while setting prices that create a profitable order. The social order exists thanks to the fact that private property maximizes economic calculation by allowing-encouraging every person-mind-CPU to sense-analyze its proximate corner of the world and reorder it to be as profitable-'pie increasing' as possible. Central planning-Socialism-Communism simply reduces the number of brains-CPUs that can do profitable calculation by turning them into order-takers by the smaller number of 'central planning "experts"' who are also too far away to gather the necessarily time-and-place information needed to profitably plan-reorder thus always rendering their planning inferior, leading to more consumption than production or what Mises referred to as ['Planned Chaos'.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7EnHeZXLzTc)

Order (biological or social) needs two things, wealth to consume as it acts-lives, and information to guide the action in a profitable-pie-increasing manner. As an American I have relatively good freedom of speech, I can say America's 1.2+ trillion yearly military spending or consumption is a horrible idea, but my freedom of speech is useless if my wealth is taken away to sustain bad ideas.  

Try to envision how matter is coordinated by information constantly increasing its value. The restaurant owner discovers laborers-equipment-‘food distributors’ with the right prices to hopefully create a profitable order-restaurant. He places orders for the food-ingredients which can be seen as increasing in value as they are delivered to the restaurant, at a cost of course, that which must be consumed(fuel-food-etc.) by the driver-etc. The waiters begin producing the ‘meal experience’ by seating customers and taking the orders, the cooks increase the value of the ingredients by combining-cooking-transforming them and thus producing the meals, the waiters further increase the value of the meals by further transforming-transporting them from the kitchen to the table. The customers consume the meals, their internal order-cells will further consume them as they produce their heartbeats and all that is required to keep the cells-people-orders alive-etc. Customers, who had previously produced stuff and exchanged it for money, traded money which will then go to the owner, cooks, waiters, suppliers, etc. and then traded with countless orders-businesses so that they too can consume-live. Each actor-order producing and consuming at different rates using prices and ‘economic calculation’ to ensure more production than consumption at the whole restaurant level, and at each individual level as the waiters and cooks manage their personal spending-lives. The food-supplying company uses the prices in its own relevant corner of the world to likewise organize itself profitably. Each actor-order is motivated to sell or trade the wealth it produces for as high a price as it can but the freedom of customers to choose competitors limits how high a profitable price can be. Thus prices, and the vital information they convey, are what allow ‘economic calculation’, they allow cars-picadillo-stuff to be built from parts-beef-inputs, which themselves are built from other inputs, each input managed-ordered by entrepreneurs-brains with highly specialized time-and-place-specific-knowledge-skills, leading to never-ending conveyor belts of interlocking cycles of production-consumption, each moving-reordering matter in increasingly valuable ways. Since prices contain highly time-place specific information it is absurd to arbitrarily copy the price from one place and apply it to another. A similar Cuban restaurant-meal might be profitable in Austin, Texas selling the picadillo for $6.50 because costs-consumption like real estate, transportation, and labor might be lower there compared to Miami Beach. In Oslo, Norway, the costs might be $20/meal due to the additional consumption of wealth that has to take place as the ingredients are shipped so far and numerous other factors, which again, are highly time and place specific and only discoverable by local actors.


Nikita Khrushchev, who followed Stalin as head of the centrally planned (Socialist-Communist) Soviet Union, is credited with saying “When all the world is socialist, Switzerland will have to remain capitalist, so that it can tell us the price of everything”. Unfortunately for Khrushchev and the billions who suffered economic chaos and an inevitable decline in production under Socialist-Communist regimes all over the world, prices in Switzerland (or anywhere else) embody information about the costs/consumption of those particular places at specific times and are no good elsewhere.

With the Internet, pricing information all over the world can help customers find-nourish cheaper-better products-orders-companies and also help producers likewise thus greatly accelerating competitive knowledge-order-spreading but it will NEVER lead to the success of central economy-wide planning because no computers-system can get in the brains of entrepreneurs to predict what products-businesses they will create and thus alter society, and similarly, no computers can get in the minds of consumers and predict how they will choose to spend their money/wealth thus once again altering the social order’s numerous cycles of production and consumption. As Mises so eloquently explains:

>“The consumers, by their buying or abstention from buying, ultimately determine what should be produced and in what quantity and quality. They render profitable the affairs of those businessmen who best comply with their wishes and unprofitable the affairs of those who do not produce what they are asking for most urgently. Profits convey control of the factors of production into the hands of those who are employing them for the best possible satisfaction of the most urgent needs of the consumers, and losses withdraw them from the control of the inefficient businessmen. In a market economy not sabotaged by the government the owners of property are mandataries of the consumers as it were. On the market a daily repeated plebiscite determines who should own what and how much. It is the consumers who make [some people rich and other people penniless.” (Mises)](https://fee.org/articles/inequality-of-wealth-and-incomes/)

Who can anticipate the firing of trillions of neurons in billions of brains to predict-plan the resulting desires-ideas?

 

Since prices that properly estimate costs/consumption can only be set by free entrepreneurs, when the government (central planners) attempts to set them via "price controls" it warps the socioeconomic order in inferior ways. For example, if the free-market price of a gallon of milk is $2.30 in a particular store in Miami which profits 0.30 per gallon (costs = $2.00) and the government mandates the price to be $1.99, then the business is consuming more wealth ($2.00) than what it gets ($1.99) and will eventually go bankrupt causing less milk to be produced leading to shortages. Even if the government sets the price to, say $2.15, so that the business can still profit, it will still lead to eventual shortages for the following reasons. Under normal circumstances the rate of profit tends to be equal-uniform across all sectors-businesses, if higher-than-average profits are being made in say auto-manufacturing, factors of production like labor, materials, real-estate are withdrawn from other less profitable sectors which reduces production-competition in them causing profits to go up in those sectors, while simultaneously increasing production-competition in the auto-manufacturing sector causing the initial higher-than-average rate of profit to go down towards average levels. So by making profits in milk production lower than the average it still has the effect of decreasing, albeit less drastically, milk production which is the opposite of what the economically ignorant masses and politicians want.

It is important to envision the socioeconomic order as it really exists as if looked at from high above. Envision people coming together-apart as companies-orders emerge and dissolve in ever-changing conditions. Superior information arising and rippling-restructuring the social order thanks to competition. As orders get more productive they lure other people to 'trade-with' or 'join-them' by offering more money-wealth for their labor relative to other companies-orders, eventually causing the least productive orders to sort of dissolve as their 'factors of production' like labor, buildings, etc. are bid away to be parts of more productive plans-orders. A sort of swarm intelligence emerges as the all-pervasive public quickly nourishes the growth and spread or superior orders-companies-information, inadvertently expanding the worldwide "division of labor and information" as entire neighborhoods-cities morph themselves in specialized ways as complementary pieces of information-orders segregate themselves in distinct geographical locations like the software industry in Silicon Valley, California and manufacturing in Guangdong, southern China. As Mises reminds us "The division of labour is a fundamental principle of all forms of life." The division of labor is a pattern-way which natural selection rediscovers to enable smaller units-orders to efficiently compartmentalize labor-information as they contribute-to (and are nourished-by) a larger organism they become parts of(Organelles -> Cells -> Organs -> Humans -> Social Organism). Mises again:

>"It is by virtue of the division of labor that man is distinguished from the animals. It is the division of labor that has made feeble man, far inferior to most animals in physical strength, the lord of the earth and the creator of the marvels of [technology." (Mises, 1985)](https://mises.org/library/liberalism-classical-tradition/html/p/7)


