
### Production and Consumption.

Whenever a person works he uses the information in his mind to reorder matter, the trillions of atoms he is made of, to produce his labor and whatever wealth it creates thus increasing the economic pie. If you are a freelancer you produce a product-service-wealth and trade it directly with society (customers) for money, and then trade the money back with society for the wealth you consume. If you work for a company, you produce your labor and trade it for money with your “employer” who combines it with the labor of others to produce a product-service-wealth which is then traded with society for the money from which your paycheck comes. Whether you are a freelancer, employee, or company, what is commonly referred to as sales revenue (your paycheck), is an estimate of the total amount of wealth produced. Costs, like employee wages which will be used by them to consume wealth(food,energy,etc.), are an estimate of how much wealth is consumed from the economic pie. And profits, which are the difference between sales revenue (production) and costs (consumption) are an *estimate* of by how much additional wealth the economic pie has grown. Again, a profitable order is an order (cell-person-company) that produces more than it consumes and is therefore self-sustaining-alive. The global economy or ‘Social Organism’ is really a vast collection of orders-people-companies that are constantly trading with each other, nourishing each other, each trade taking each participant-order from an inferior to a superior state of well-being from its own perspective, otherwise the trade would not occur. When Carl trades a dollar for a hamburger he values the hamburger more than the dollar and the restaurant values the dollar more than the hamburger so the action of trading takes place, which like all action which is not coerced, takes each participant from an inferior to superior state of wellbeing. 

If a teenager uses a tree-trimmer to produce one mowed lawn valued at $50 in 10 hours, his 'rate of production' is $50 / 10 hours = $5/hour. If next month he uses a riding lawn mower and mows the same lawn in 1 hour, he has increased his 'rate of production' 10-fold to $50/hour. Profit-loss calculation motivates and enables all orders-people-companies to guide their actions in the most profitable and thus pie-increasing way, and, very importantly, it also prevents orders from consuming more than what they produce. Unless, of course, they are the benefactors of charity. The wealthier a person-company-order is, the more this order has produced and exchanged for all this money-wealth. Jeff Bezos is one of the world’s richest men because the social order he helped shape and successfully managed, Amazon.com , has been one of the most productive in the world. We know this is the case because millions of human beings traded their money-wealth for its products-services.

Since production is just a transformation-relocation of existing matter-wealth ("fashioning of imperishable matter into more advantageous shapes"), the production of wealth requires the consumption-use of existing wealth. For example, if 10,000 men are to spend 2 years producing an airplane factory, they must consume-use the concrete-materials-food-energy-transportation-shelter-wealth that they (as well as their dependents-family) need while they produce the factory. In other words, there can be no production if there does not already exist enough saved wealth that can be consumed while production takes place.