
Abolish minimum wage laws and other restrictions on labor like minimum age requirements and obviously all the Coromunism related restrictions. This would allow everyone to work adding a tremendous boost to the economy and the very morals of people. Coromunism is over! This would greatly reduce crime since former “criminals” will now be able to find employment. It is true that some of their first jobs might not pay much initially, but with a few months of experience and the reputation that also comes from this, their productivity would rise and thus would their income. The ability of children and teens to work will greatly reduce whatever little poverty exists in the USA and help to further shape a productive character, one that not only values hard work, honesty, competition, and so on, but a character that appreciates and expects those same values from other individuals because teamwork and mutual respect is crucial for successful competition. Hard working and honest people inevitably force others to be likewise. The sooner and easier we make it for people to integrate themselves into the private sector and its attitude-shaping incentives the sooner we will regain the superior morals of our grandparents. Public education should be abolished immediately as well. With places like http://www.khanacademy.org/, Wikipedia.org, and the many free educational sites and games and the ability to use video-web conferencing via programs like Skype-Zoom to talk to a knowledgeable person it should be obvious to realize that there is little need to spend thousands of dollars to learn the basic reading, writing, and arithmetic skills needed to move on to more challenging concepts, and much less the need for expensive temple-or-prison-like structures we call “schools”. The war on drugs should be ended immediately and those that have been incarcerated or on parole because of it released from such bondage. At its core the drug war is simply coercion by a group of haters against others. This would turn over a million people-prisoners into wealth producers instead of wealth consumers, reunite parents with children and once again integrate people into the productive-morals-shaping private sector. 

