

### Savings, Interest Rates, Business Cycles, and Recuperating Coronavirus Job Losses.

Finance-banking and interest rates are other vital aspects of the 'Market Process'. Besides the more obvious function of safeguarding savings and pooling the savings of many people to allow the execution of bigger projects which would have been impossible if entrepreneurs were limited to the few savings-wealth of friends and family, banking-finance and more specifically the phenomenon of 'interest rates' also play a nearly miraculous role. For example, assuming interest rates are at around 8-10%, some people, those who have no desire to start a business or have inferior business ideas they expect will have a return on investment (ROI) lower than 8%, will be motivated to lend their money to banks to earn ~8% interest and by doing so they refrain from consumption-spending, thus increasing the amount of wealth-savings available to the future borrowers. The banks are a place where such saved money can be combined, easily accessed and loaned out in different quantities to nourish ideas-businesses-restructurings of different sizes. Banks charge borrowers a higher interest than what they pay to savers-lenders and profit the difference. For example, they lend 1 million to John who uses the money to pay for his business' consumption as it produces (has sales revenue) $1,300,000 worth of stuff thus growing the economic pie by 30%. He pays back loan with the 10% interest (1.1 million) and keeps the $200,000. The Bank pays the savers 8% ($80,000) and keeps the %2 ($20,000) with which to pay-for-nourish its own consumption. Something amazing is going on here!!!. Interest rates motivate the accumulation of wealth and movement of money from minds-CPUs that have inferior ideas that can grow the economic pie slowly (0-8% rate) to minds that have superior ideas and can grow the economy faster (> 10%) thus giving a tremendous sort of 'computational boost' to society. To the economically ignorant, banks-financier-money-lenders, making a living by charging interest without seemingly having to "sweat" seems immoral-unethical, but the economically woke can see how they play a vital role in pairing savings with the best ideas and the interest rate is like a barometer that helps decide whether a mind should do the saving or borrowing. The savings-wealth of the rich, like all wealth in the private sector, is eventually spent on the private sector sustaining efficient private sectors jobs that will tend to grow the economic pie by at least the prevailing interest rate. Taxing such wealth-savings from the rich just destroys those jobs-orders and leads to relatively unproductive government consumption. If you take away the wealth that the rich spend on creating yachts and big homes, you have destroyed the jobs-livelihoods of the yacht and big-home builders. 

It is important to realize that, as the great economist Henry Hazlitt writes in his classic “Economics in One Lesson”:

>“ “Saving,” in short, in the modern world, is only another form of spending. The usual difference is that the money is turned over to someone else to spend on means to [increase production”,](https://fee.org/resources/economics-in-one-lesson/)

and that this increase in production has to be at least large enough to pay back the loan with interest. The economically ignorant masses are unaware of the fact that thanks to the finance-banking sector, the savings of the much vilified "rich" is the very wealth that private sector workers consume while they go about increasing production by an amount greater than the current interest rate. Taxing "the rich" just removes this wealth and the private sector jobs it would otherwise sustain and gives it to government where it is inefficiently consumed while producing little in comparison leading to massive relative losses. 

A society that saves little is sort of stuck in the same cycle of production and consumption and is unable to nourish a new business-idea-restructuring for the time it might take before it produces wealth. Where would our 10,000 airplane factory builders get the wealth to nourish their consumption for the 2 years it would take them to even begin making new planes if others had not saved it? How long would it take for such savings-wealth to exist if savings grow very slowly? On the other hand, a society that saves a lot is constantly making wealth available for superior ideas-businesses-restructurings and thus growing and advancing technologically much faster. 

The more people save, the more money banks will have to lend out and the lower the interest rate will be as banks compete with each other by offering a lower interest rate to lure borrowers. This also means that there is more REAL wealth available to sustain more ideas-businesses, the REAL wealth that savers did NOT consume when they gave their money to banks. If interest rates are at 10%, it does not make sense to borrow-consume to nourish an idea-restructuring that will have a return on investment of less than 10%, but if they go down to 3%, then it does make sense for additional entrepreneurs to borrow and nourish ideas that will yield 10% ROI to profit the 7% difference. Now, VERY IMPORTANT!. What happens if interest rates are lowered, not because more saved-unconsumed wealth is available, but because central banks increased the money supply("bank credit") to "artificially lower" interest rates from the "natural rate" of 10%, to the "artificial rate" of 3%? What happens is that additional projects-ideas which would NOT have been attempted before will now be attempted even though the needed wealth to sustain them to completion will not exist eventually leading to a sort of "bust"-bankruptcies, and partly-finished projects which squandered wealth. Mises has a masterful analogy that goes as follows. At any moment in time given a certain real "natural rate"(again, we assume 10%), there exists enough wealth in terms of bricks-wealth needed to create 100 buildings-projects. If people have really saved more to bring down the interest rate from 10% to 3% there are now more bricks-wealth and 120 buildings-projects can be completed, but if the interest rate has gone down to 3%, not because there really are more bricks-wealth-savings, but because more money has been created, the bases and some scaffolding for 120 buildings is attempted, but eventually, due to the fact that there are now more businessmen with more newly created money which was used to lower the interest rate competing for the same amount of bricks-wealth, the price of bricks (factors of production like labor,land,energy,materials) goes up more than would have otherwise been the case, which eventually causes many entrepreneurs to face the unavoidable fact that there did not exist enough wealth-bricks at the right prices to complete their projects in a profitable way, therefore a sort of bust-chaos and loss of wealth will eventually happen as inevitable bankruptcies occur. Partly finished buildings that are inhabitable are obviously massive losses, and even though eventually perhaps 70 buildings are completed, the wealth-bricks that could have completed an extra 30 was consumed-used to create 50 unfinished ones. Mises summarizes:

>“Credit expansion cannot increase the supply of real goods. It merely brings about a rearrangement. It diverts capital investment away from the course prescribed by the state of economic wealth and market conditions. It causes production to pursue paths which it would not follow unless the economy were to acquire an increase in material goods. As a result, the upswing lacks a solid base. It is not real prosperity. It is illusory prosperity. It did not develop from an increase in economic wealth. Rather, it arose because the credit expansion created the illusion of such an increase. Sooner or later it must become apparent that this economic situation is built on sand.”[(Mises L. v., 2006, p. 162)](https://books.google.com/books?id=n2o4k-RaWrcC&pg=PA162&lpg=PA162&dq=%22that+this+economic+situation+is+built+on+sand%22&source=bl&ots=J362cHTdkY&sig=ACfU3U2dd0wZHn-qAwigsnFxCOXK8hYdrA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwi739ry0PDoAhUclnIEHcY5BzwQ6AEwAXoECAwQLw#v=onepage&q=%22that%20this%20economic%20situation%20is%20built%20on%20sand%22&f=false)

The sort of bust-chaos will occur in one of two ways depending on how the central banks act. If the myth-error that creating "liquidity"-money is beneficial persists as the government via the central banks attempts to 'bail out' more and more industries-businesses-people, either by sending money to people directly or adding it to banks to keep interest rates low and thus continuing the illusion that there is enough saved wealth-bricks, then the hopefully obvious result is hyperinflation and an intensifying unproductive chaos as money's vital coordination of profit-loss-economic calculation breaks down, leading to more consumption than production, riots, famine, who knows. Eventually people will switch to a foreign currency or something else for money. The better scenario is that the central banks stop the money-creation. Remember, the creation of money just transfers wealth from society at large to the entities receiving the money, it is just a transfer of wealth. Unfortunately the wealth is being transferred to orders-governments-businesses that are misaligned, ultimately consuming more than producing, thus continuously shrinking parts of the economic pie, so you have less wealth and more money and the obvious relative higher prices. Stopping the money creation-inflation will do several beneficial things: 

1) It will allow wealth to remain in the control of the brains that created it in the first place and thus contain superior 'profitable information', in other words, the information needed to order society in a manner that creates more wealth than it consumes which is precisely what is needed. When the government creates money and gives it to some entity, like when it sends a check to someone who lost his job due to Coronavirus lockdowns who will simply trade the money for wealth to consume, this obviously just reduces the economic pie while adding additional money leading to relatively higher prices so everyone else will consume less, and also incentivizes the person to not even work-produce. If the money is given to some inherently inefficient government bureaucracy we again have consumption by its employees with little wealth added in return thus continuing the relative shrinking of the economic pie and higher prices. If it is given to a private sector company, it will most likely be a misaligned-unprofitable order-company which will once again lead to a relative shrinking of the economy although not as severe or quickly as the first two scenarios. 

2) Stopping money creation-inflation will also cause interest rates to rise to whatever level truly coordinates the level of savings and investment possible. Initially and temporarily this will be very high which is great, those projects-businesses for which there weren't enough bricks-wealth to complete in a truly profitable manner and were fooled into trying by borrowing at low interest rates, will no longer be able to do so and finally go bankrupt and their 'factors of production' like existing buildings and labor, will be sold-laid off and their prices will come down enough to the point where entrepreneurs will once again be able to incorporate them into truly profitable plans-orders thus realigning the social structure of production in the best possible way. If 120 buildings-projects are mistakenly being attempted, you want those that can't possibly be finished to fail as soon as possible so they stop consuming the wealth-bricks that can go to profitable plans/buildings.  

3) The temporary high interest rates will also motivate people to save and thus consume less so they can earn the higher interest rates which will provide the necessary REAL wealth-savings to sustain further economic growth and also quickly bring down interest rates to more normal levels.

Again, the information needed to organize labor-society can only be discovered and acted upon by free people-entrepreneurs who are at the right time and place and have the ideal incentives. Taxes, or creating money which is just another way to transfer wealth or tax, simply removes wealth from the private sector where it is part of profitable orders which grow the economic pie on average at a rate greater than the prevailing interest rate, and gives the wealth to government which for the most part just consumes it adding little productivity in return leading to horrendous relative losses of prosperity-progress. No matter how chaotic it might seem due to the potential number of bankruptcies, the quicker we allow them to occur and prices to fall, the quicker will entrepreneurs-people discover how to once again order labor and existing "factors of production" in profitable and thus truly pie-increasing ways. This applies just as much to a recovery from a Central Banking-inflation-created business cycle as it does to quickly figuring out how to reorder millions of people who are out of work due to Coronavirus-hype and related government lockdowns. Right now I could easily hire 50 people in my building for $1-hour and rent them out to give massages, do laundry, deliveries, etc., however, competition from other entrepreneurs-brains-CPUs-themselves who have superior information would pay them more and thus lure them away from my inferior order so that very quickly everyone would be incorporated in the most profitable plans the millions of competing brains can come up with. It is of course vitally important that minimum wage laws are abolished so we allow all profitable ideas-restructurings to occur. 

The Coronavirus lockdowns have led to more consumption than production thus obviously shrinking the economic pie. The less seed a farmer has to plant for the next crop, the smaller the crop will be. Since there exists less wealth, the wealth that can be traded for people's labor will be smaller and therefore people should expect lower wages. Most of the 35+ million people who have lost their jobs would probably be able to work in the same companies as before if they are wise enough to accept correspondingly lower pay. Most of us have been made poorer, we will have less wealth to trade for meals at restaurants which means less wealth-revenue for restaurants and correspondingly smaller wages if they are to remain in business-profitable. Since many businesses, especially restaurants, already pay minimum or close to minimum wages, many will not be allowed to lower wages and have to stop producing altogether.

When a business like an airline goes bankrupt and ownership-assets are now in the hands of creditors, what usually happens is that the creditors are motivated to sell the business to a competitor who is likely to have the best ideas-information leading to profitable use of resources-labor and will thus typically be the highest bidder for the old airline-business. That's all, financiers-investors take losses and often employees also see their wages reduced as part of a now-profitable company-order. Economic education is obviously the most important thing needed to allow the necessary freedom for this to happen. 

Hayek summarizes the cure:

>“And, if we pass from the moment of actual crisis to the situation in the following depression, it is still more difficult to see what lasting good effects can come from credit-expansion. The thing which is needed to secure healthy conditions is the most speedy and complete adaptation possible of the structure of production … determined by voluntary saving and spending. If the proportion as determined by the voluntary decisions of individuals is distorted by the creation of artificial demand, it must mean that part of the available resources is again led into a wrong direction and a definite and lasting adjustment is again postponed. And, even if the absorption of the unemployed resources were to be quickened this way, it would only mean that the seed would already be sown for new disturbances and new crises. The only way permanently to “mobilize” all available resources is, therefore, not to use artificial stimulants—whether during a crisis or thereafter—but to leave it to time to affect a permanent cure by the slow process of adapting the structure of production to the means available for capital purposes.” [(Hayek F. A., 1932, pp. 86-87)](https://cdn.mises.org/Prices%20and%20Production_5.pdf)





