
##### Covid19 and the inevitable economically ignorant push for disastrous Global Central Planning

Why did mankind fall for this Corona-hype, the lockdowns and related disastrous economic policies we will continue to see? How did this totally unnecessary World War One-like Lenin-Like calamity fool so many experts, leaders, including some of our "brightest minds" into such needless socioeconomic chaos and misery? Is it the result of some "conspiracy" by people like Bill Gates and Fauci, etc.? *Mostly no.* Was religious oppression the result of some "conspiracy"? No. How about slavery? of course not as well. What about the spread of Socialism throughout much of the world? Was that too a "conspiracy" by Lenin, Mao, Hitler, Roosevelt, etc.? No, all of these disasters and the emergence of the very personalities which executed them are "indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design". The spread of Socialism and Lenin's Bolshevik-'Central Planning' revolution and what for lack of a better word I'll refer to as "Coromunism" have important similarities. Let's discuss some of the factors that led to the emergence and current execution of Coromunism.

Since the world is becoming increasingly interconnected-complex, it is understandable how some hypothetical potential pathogen, which in a smaller tribal world might hypothetically have wiped out a tiny tribe, might now wipe out a huge chunk or perhaps even all of humanity. It is understandable how this mindset-ideology-hypothesis would almost inevitably lure an increasing number of concerned minds, like:

1. Bill Gates for example in 2015: "If anything kills over ten million people in the next few decades. It's most likely to be a highly infections virus", also "Whether it occurs by the quirk of nature or at the hand of a terrorist, epidemiologists show through their models that a respiratory-spread pathogen would kill more [than 30 million people"](https://youtu.be/o7A_cMpKm6w?t=392) 

2. Anthony Fauci in 2017:  "there will be a surprise outbreak … History, and the history of the past 32 years that I’ve been the director of NIAID, will tell the next administration that there’s no doubt in anyone’s mind that they will be faced with the challenges that their [predecessors were faced with."](https://www.wired.com/story/an-oral-history-of-the-pandemic-warnings-trump-ignored/). Fauci's 'historically inevitable' arguments also mirror those of the Marxist-Communists who were just as convinced that Communism-'Central Planning' was a historical inevitability. The 'historically inevitable' aspect further helps attract minds who both want to be on 'the right side of history' and to further accelerate the perceived improvements. There are many very bright and surely concerned and caring people like famous statistician Nassim Taleb who are in some ways glad that even if the reaction to CovidMania ended up being somewhat overblown, that it somehow helped prepare society for a future one, and might thus ultimately prove to be a good thing down the road. 

3. Michael Ryan, the Executive Director of the World Health Organization Health Emergencies Programme, on October 19, 2019, about 6 weeks before the Covid hysteria really began: "I fully expect that we will be confronted by a fast moving [highly lethal pandemic of a respiratory pathogen"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZu4K9js_Q0)

Given the global-borderless nature of this potential problem, as well as the potential-hypothetical-assumed need to require global compliance, it is understandable how anyone who attempts to tackle this hypothetical problem without the proper understanding of economics finds himself in the role of a central planner who pretty much has no choice but to persuade leaders into a potentially world-wide coercive solution which can obviously have you portrayed as some very bad guy, which is something Bill Gates is understandingly increasingly having to deal with. Given the nature of this hypothetical problem, the more this idea spreads through the minds of people, especially the medical monopolies-CDC-WHO who are inadvertently incentivized to see their budgets grow for their needed "heroic efforts", the more motivated and somewhat morally justified they are in exaggerating dangers and trying to implement what is essentially a competition-less central plan. Again, we must focus on how numerous ideas and incentives, and more importantly, economic fallacies leading to competitionless-central-planning, begin spreading and shaping the environment where eventually some spark leads them to coalesce behind a more coordinated plan which gives the impression that they were a "conspiracy" when in reality they weren't. 

In addition to all the standard economic fallacies which continue to grow and is evidenced by the growth in popularity of things like "democratic socialism", we have the growing complexity of the social order which the slightly smarter apes understandably feel needs some global central planner-regulator-experts to improve which brings us to the increasingly popular "The Great Reset"(TGR) initiative of the World Economic Forum. TGR should not be seen as some vast sinister conspiracy. Like Communism, it is just the inevitable result of slightly smarter apes dealing with a socioeconomic complexity they don't understand and the perverse incentives that grow such central planning bodies. 

The thinking of the economically ignorant "experts" goes as follows "the people and businessmen and 'capitalists' are too focused on their own narrow interests to worry about saving mankind from the coming pandemic-'climate change'-etc, there is seemingly no profit for them to make here" and so on. Again, what we want to understand is the emergence of the ideology and incentive structure that eventually materializes itself into what is now clearly before us, the rapid growth of a new economic-freedom stifling 'central planning' bureaucracy-Coromunism, just like the one Lenin created. Those of us who have had the fortune of stumbling upon Mises-Hayek can easily see how the economic fallacies and perverse incentives and 'echo chamber' of central planning ultimately financed by 'money creation'-inflation-central banking' is what spreads-materializes. If Bill Gates, Fauci, and the countless "experts" who are more and more convinced of the inevitable coming of such pandemic really understood how the world-economy works and how to make it better and are still worried about some superbug wiping out mankind, which I personally believe there is little chance of happening, instead of trying to pair up with the numerous top-down-competition-less-bureaucratic-paralyzing world-government health bodies and political leaders, these men should be helping spread an understanding of basic economics, privatization, economic competition, etc., so that rapid technological progress would allow us to both, better asses whether such a pandemic is even possible and the probability that it might happen, and have superior technological ability to deal with it or prevent-mitigate it should it arise with the proper cost-benefit analysis that only the free decisions of billions of people can create. In other words, they should be spreading an understanding of freedom and competitively funding related research and publishing findings-etc. Actually, they should also be encouraging more babies and a massive increase in world population so that 'the market process' has even more human brains with which to become even smarter. But obviously these men are economically clueless and are thus trying to coerce the entire planet to go along with their inferior information-mythology and oh so much more and as they do this they are destroying the world economy and thus civilization, just like Lenin and the similarly well-intentioned slightly smarter apes of his day. 


The economic ignorance leads to errors and even personalities which repeat themselves. Bill Gates is essentially a new Albert Einstein, a smart person who achieved a lot in a particular field, but whose economic ignorance is a recipe for the destruction of civilization. To my knowledge Bill Gates has NEVER mentioned Ludwig von Mises or F.A. Hayek so he simply does not have the slightest clue how the world really works and thus inevitably, with the best of intentions-negligence-arrogance or whatever the combination of factors might be, he becomes a coercive 'Central Planner'-Totalitarian-Socialist (in this regard). Mises easily predicted their personalities and inevitable totalitarian aims:

>"The outstanding fact about the contemporary ideological situation is that the most popular political doctrines aim at totalitarianism, the thorough abolition of the individual's freedom to choose and to act. No less remarkable is the fact that the most bigoted advocates of such a system of conformity call themselves scientists, logicians, and philosophers."

As Hayek mentions:

>"If socialists understood economics they wouldn't be socialists."

People like Fauci, Gates, World Economic Forum Chairman Klaus Schwab and that increasing number of like-minded 'single-minded idealists' who have invested so much of their lives and gain so much satisfaction from feeling like their central plans are so beneficial or vital for mankind, just like with Lenin and the Socialist-Communists, are often the most dangerous and detached from the immense suffering and tyranny they are causing. Hayek explains:

>“The movement for planning owes its present strength largely to the fact that, while planning is in the main still an ambition, it unites almost all the single-minded idealists, all the men and women who have devoted their lives to a single task.  The hopes they place in planning, however, are the result not of a comprehensive view of society but rather of a very limited view and often the result of a great exaggeration of the importance of the ends they place foremost.  This is not to underrate the great pragmatic value of this type of men in a free society like ours, which makes them the subject of just admiration.  But it would make the very men who are most anxious to plan society the most dangerous if they were allowed to do so—and the most intolerant of the planning of others. From the saintly and single-minded idealist to the fanatic is often [but a step.”](https://lpmaryland.org/liberty-quotation-day-planning-single-minded-idealist/)

Again, Bill Gates, whose 'single-minded' idealism and ambition did the world so much good via his management of Microsoft, is applying the same drive and 'single-minded' focus in an economically disastrous manner. He has been one of the biggest proponents of the disastrous lockdowns and looking the other way regarding the now-obvious relative harmlessness of the Coronavirus pathogen. On April 30, 2020 long long long after it has been shown that the fatality of CV is hardly different than that of the regular flu he wrote an article titled ["What you need to know about the COVID-19 vaccine"](https://www.gatesnotes.com/Health/What-you-need-to-know-about-the-COVID-19-vaccine) with a subheading which reads "Humankind has never had a more urgent task than creating broad immunity for coronavirus". Somehow the 3 pounds of tissue that make up the brain in Gates' head is thoroughly convinced that the nearly 8 billion people in the planet must be coerced to go along with injecting themselves with a vaccine he expects will be ready in 18 months. As of 12/20/2020 according to the CDC 1 out of 35 people taking Covid vaccines are being incapacitated to the point where they are "unable to perform normal daily activities, unable to work, required care from doctor or [health care professional"](https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/acip/meetings/downloads/slides-2020-12/slides-12-19/05-COVID-CLARK.pdf?fbclid=IwAR1WXWqGYpckNHV-lBgmlzT85q5gTtHx_FKe3gKS3D6qhVlZ_0wownLxDxw) And these are just the easily noticeable immediate effects. Again, given this initial damage, and the immense complexity of the biochemical order, how can one be sure that no longer-term effects will occur? Especially in vaccines that are using new technology which has not even been verified long term with animal experiments? But as the great promoter of TV products, Billy Mays would say, "But wait, there's more!" The same incredible 3 pounds of flesh in Gate's head can save us yet again! This time via his new book "How to Avoid a Climate Disaster: The Solutions We Have and the Breakthroughs We Need". 

In this section's opening paragraph we asked regarding CovidMania:  "Is it the result of some "conspiracy" by people like Bill Gates and Fauci, etc.?" And proceeded with *Mostly no.* Let us once again refer to the Bolshevik revolution. The deeper causes were mankind's ignorance of economics even though one could also say that it was an evolving conspiracy by Lenin and his like-minded communists. The economically ignorant central planning 'echo chamber' and 'incentive structure' that currently dominates the thinking of people like Gates and Klaus and numerous others could very well have reached a point where in order to get the world's governments-leaders to go along with their wonderful global governing bodies, that they have spread their ideology so much virtually guaranteeing that the CovidMania would arise with the next flu-like bug. Consider the "Event 201: A Global Pandemic Exercise" backed by John Hopkins University, The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and The World Economic Forum, which supposedly occurred on Friday Oct. 18th, 2019 in NYC coincidentally a few months before CovidMania exploded. This is NOT some hidden sinister conspiracy, this is for all the good citizens to learn about and participate and [available here](https://www.centerforhealthsecurity.org/event201/about). The first paragraph explains the purpose:

>"Event 201 was a 3.5-hour pandemic tabletop exercise that simulated a series of dramatic, scenario-based facilitated discussions, confronting difficult, true-to-life dilemmas associated with response to a hypothetical, but scientifically plausible, pandemic. 15 global business, government, and public health leaders were players in the simulation exercise that highlighted unresolved real-world policy and economic issues that could be solved with sufficient political will, financial investment, and attention now and in the future"

Further...

>"In recent years, the world has seen a growing number of epidemic events, amounting to approximately 200 events annually. These events are increasing, and they are disruptive to health, economies, and society. Managing these events already strains global capacity, even absent a pandemic threat. Experts agree that it is only a matter of time before one of these epidemics becomes global—a pandemic with potentially catastrophic consequences. A severe pandemic, which becomes “Event 201,” would require reliable cooperation among several industries, national governments, and key international institutions.

>Recent economic studies show that pandemics will be the cause of an average annual economic loss of 0.7% of global GDP—or $570 billion. The players’ responses to the scenario illuminated the need for cooperation among industry, national governments, key international institutions, and civil society, to avoid the catastrophic consequences that could arise from a large-scale pandemic.....

>"Recommendations
>The next severe pandemic will not only cause great illness and loss of life but could also trigger major cascading economic and societal consequences that could contribute greatly to global impact and suffering. The Event 201 pandemic exercise, conducted on October 18, 2019, vividly demonstrated a number of these important gaps in pandemic preparedness as well as some of the elements of the solutions between the public and private sectors that will be needed to fill them. The Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, World Economic Forum, and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation jointly propose these [recommendations](https://www.centerforhealthsecurity.org/event201/recommendations.html).

From the "recommendations" page we have:

>"A call to action

>The next severe pandemic will not only cause great illness and loss of life but could also trigger major cascading economic and societal consequences that could contribute greatly to global impact and suffering. Efforts to prevent such consequences or respond to them as they unfold will require unprecedented levels of collaboration between governments, international organizations, and the private sector."

So... How does one interpret all this? What a coincidence!? Could all this preparation simply have spread to so many minds that when the next flu-like illness arose all the "experts" simply went along with this plan because it had been fresh on their minds? Did some ideologues purposely exaggerate in the hopes of getting more attention and the necessary resources to further their wonderful Global Plans for mankind? Was this just a coincidence? Remember all those clueless scientists in the "The Conservation of Species" section who essentially want homo sapiens to perish? Why should we not expect their ignorance to continue to spread and eventually materialize in disastrous errors-policies? Even if this had been "plotted" to various degrees along the way as some feel, the deeper causes, are once again economic ignorance. Lenin did not destroy much of the 20th century because he was some sinister guy who just didn't want to get a real job. Who really wants to be remembered for having caused so much suffering? And the same likely applies to Bill and Melinda and Fauci and all of our Central Planners-Priests. These people are just totally clueless. They are the inevitable Priesthood that arises from the ignorance and tribalisms of the masses. I have little doubt on my mind that if Bill and Melinda could be reached with the vital Mises-Hayek-friends ideas, that they would harness the power of 'the market process' and thus freedom to help civilization. 




