
###### The Virology Priesthood goes to Court and Loses. The evolved wisdom of the legal system.

Let us look deeper at the evolution of the HIV->DEATH myth. As already discussed, lifestyle and environmental factors were causing massive biochemical breakdowns in gay men leading some to die. Factors leading to the evolution of the myth were:

1. Scientists looking for answers, cures, and big bucks and glory too. Remember that petri-dish of 2% who are 100% charlatans-liars-exaggerators-fearmongers and many others who show various degrees of negligence and how they can create these growing echo-chambers and social structures with various degrees of ignorance-negligence-malice, especially when looking the other way will bring a massive government contract? 

2. A gay community using their illness to criticize the Conservative-Religious-Raegan administration for not doing enough to help the culturally oppressed gay community find a cure.

3. Politicians and government bureaucrats like Fauci with an opportunity to be heroes and justify their bureaucracies.

4. Pharmaceutical companies looking for that massive government contract as they partner with the government.

As factors 1-4 are evolving in the early 1980s and spreading the ideas and incentive structure that would eventually coalesce in the HIV->DEATH myth, 'virologist' Dr. Robert Gallo, who would eventually be found guilty of research misconduct, claims that what he sees in some electron microscope images is the virus that is making people sick. Gallo had "claimed in 1975 to have discovered the first human retrovirus (HL23), but which turned out to be nothing more than pieces of DNA from three different sources of contamination." (Lanka) . This time Gallo's errors, negligence, or malice would provide the spark that ignited the myth. Before Gallo had even published his findings in peer-reviewed journals, on April 23rd, 1984 he and secretary of health and human services Margaret Heckler gave a press conference where Margaret mentions:

>"First, the probable cause of AIDS has been found: a variant of a known human cancer virus. Second, not only has the agent been identified, but a new process has been developed to mass produce this virus. Thirdly, with the discovery of both the virus and this new process, we now have a blood test for AIDS. With a blood test, we can identify AIDS victims with essentially 100% certainty."

As with Saddam Hussein's mythical Weapons of Mass Destruction and all the negligence, lies, and exaggerations that led to them, we have another example of mythical-hypothetical and ultimately fictitious bullshit leading to the expansion (at taxpayer expense obviously) of government-Priesthood and related myths.

We already touched upon one of those Galileos who stood up to the growing HIV-Priesthood in the form of Dr. Peter Duesberg, but there was another group of scientists who unlike Duesberg who believed HIV was a real virus but harmless, believed that there was no evidence of a pathogenic virus at all. Enter [The Perth Group](http://www.theperthgroup.com/), originally founded in 1981 in Perth, Western Australia. The three original members were the leader, biophysicist [Eleni Papadopulos-Eleopulos, physician Valendar F Turner and Professor of Pathology John Papadimitriou](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PQFxratWh7E). Later they were augmented with physicists Bruce Hedland-Thomas, David Causer and Barry Page and others. They really got to the root cause of the "complexity" from which the myth of Virology arose. They essentially showed how the countless interferences with cells and complexities relating to Electron Microscopy and the methods used in their experiments made it impossible for virologists to prove their claims and resulting hypothetical intellectual edifice known as 'Virology'. Stumbling upon the wisdom of 'The Perth Group' and thus the vaccination myth and the HIV->DEATH myth, and alarmed by a mandatory Measles vaccination program in Germany, Prof. Stefan Lanka, offered a 100,000 Euro reward to anyone who could prove the existence of the Measles virus.[(Lanka explains ordeal)](https://www.bitchute.com/video/MuBV8355mGe4/) German doctor David Bardens submitted 6 papers to the courts to force Lanka to pay, including John Enders' seminal paper upon which much of the Virology myth stands and eventually got him the Nobel Prize (1954). The lower German court accepted the submissions as sort of Gospel without the need to actually apply sound scientific principles in their examination and ruled in favor of Bardens. Lanka appealed the decision to a higher court where real examination of the papers would take place and the court rightly concluded that none of the papers, including Enders', could prove the existence of a virus. Bardens appealed, but the courts saw no need to re-examine. Notice how the entire "Priesthood of Scientism", especially in a country as technologically advanced as Germany, could have used all of its fancy technology to easily show that the virus exists, especially when you consider how much "science" and more is ultimately dependent on it. But the priesthood just remained silent, looking the other way, some Priests-Scientists spreading fear about the Faithful-unvaccinated dying due to heretical ideas. 

CovidMania made it obvious to many honest scientists how they were themselves part of a coercive priesthood following various myths. One of the biggest names to sort of wake up from such myths and thus become a heretic to the "Priesthood of Scientism" is Dr. Michael Yeadon, who was at one time the vice president and head of allergy and respiratory research in Pfizer. This one-time High-priest, when reached by no-pathogenic-virus proponents like Dr. Andrew Kaufman and Dr. Thomas Cowen, and further researching, came to the conclusion that there was in fact no great evidence of pathogenic respiratory viruses. In interview he mentions: 

>"I realized over time I could no longer maintain my understanding of respiratory viruses as I thought I knew them and then I learned a new bit of information recently and it was just, it collapsed the possibility that respiratory viruses exist at all. [They don’t."](https://genkimanquest.substack.com/p/dr-mike-yeadon-on-respiratory-viruses)


It is important to realize how the myths homo sapiens follow are very easy to debunk, they just need what should be obvious, freedom of speech, freedom from coercion, and the emerging 'competitive knowledge discovery'. Here we once again have to remind ourselves that things like a modern legal system and its rules of evidence, which provide a good framework or algorithm for discovering the truth, free of human-tribal influence and coercion, and incentives that prevent people from lying or committing fraud, is something that evolved independent and usually in spite of man's reason. Man's reason usually leads to a 'great leader' who must abolish legal constraints to accomplish the great monkey-plan, the great war against the evil-doers-others, central economic planning, etc. The courts thus provide a far better environment for discovering the truth in science than the regulatory Priesthoods like the AMA, FDA, and various government and thus competition-immune bureaucracies-Priesthoods. It is the lawsuits in sound legal environments, not the AMA, FDA and various government Priesthoods which really protect customers and help discover the truth. There would have been no witch burnings, slavery, world wars, or any of the countless myths the apes have fallen for which require coercing each other for some purpose, if such reasons-myths had to prove their efficacy or validity in a relatively modern court of law. The existing medical priesthood tried to silence Prof. Timothy Noakes, but fortunately South Africa's existing legal framework defended freedom from the existing Priesthood-myths, and we saw the same with Lanka and related myths. 

In Lanka we also have another vital example of a potential Galileo who realized that we are not fighting a sinister conspiracy, but more like complex mythology. He talks about his own intellectual growth regarding this vital insight:

>"we are learning from each other...nobody knows everything....I'm happy that I'm of course a little bit more clever than I was 30 years ago. 30 years ago I believed that the people are acting intentionally, that at least some in the government knew that there is no virus, but they pretend that there is a virus in order to induce fear. This I really believed to the bottom of my heart and I acted accordingly. I was fighting, I was really a fighter you know, till I came under pressure myself..."  [The pressure of being mistakenly seen as a bad/evil HIV-denier, anti-vaxxer, etc.]   "....the most important thing I understood it's not betrayal and it's even not a bad intention it's the product of our [history"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xYPdC9m7jWE) 


Right! It is a complex history and countless other factors that lead to our myths and resulting coercive bureucracies, not a conspiracy by 'big pharma', Communists, 'The Jews', the antisemites, etc.
