

### Trade, Money and the Division of Labor and Information.

Trade and money led to the "division of labor and information" which allowed the social order to efficiently compartmentalize information in only the brains that needed it and also accumulate a virtually limitless amount of information with which to continuously restructure itself in increasingly more productive-advanced ways. For example, Mark's brain contains knowledge of how to get coconuts and process them to create pastries. Tom's brain contains knowledge of how to find the best vines and weave them together to make baskets. Jim's of where to find rocks which when split can create sharp knives and how to sharpen them. When Mark trades his pastries for Tom's baskets and Jim's knives he is a benefactor of all the knowledge needed to creating those items yet he only had to know how to make his pastries. Unlike the tribal social order where knowledge is inefficiently repeated across every brain, trade allows for information to be efficiently stored fewer times freeing up more brains to contain more information. We can envision 1,000 men producing and trading 1,000 different types of items requiring 1,000 times more information which without trade and the 'division of information' that it enables would have been impossible to achieve in a tribal society. Also, when Mark trades his pastries for the baskets and knives he can now make less trips to gather coconuts by using the baskets and process them faster by using the knives and thus increase his 'rate of production' from 2 to 10 pastries per day. The pastry-making process has become more productive and also more complex because it was enabled by basket and knife making knowledge. We now have a never-ending cycle of increased 'rate of production' and complexity -> population growth (more brains) -> increased 'rate of production' and complexity -> more brains -> … leading to where we are today with nearly 8 billion people and the inability to fully trace the knowledge that enabled the creation of anything. In Hayek's words: 

>"the greater density of population, leading to the discovery of opportunities for specialisation, or division of
labour, led to yet further increases of population and per capita income that
made possible another increase in the population. [And so on."](https://books.google.com/books?id=YQLYAQAAQBAJ&pg=PA40&lpg=PA40&dq=%22the+greater+density+of+population,+leading+to+the+discovery+of+opportunities%22&source=bl&ots=OdrrCyyGT3&sig=ACfU3U2RrY6L_hQm8BCBOad08o-du-kPtQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwj3wOfc4q_pAhUxFjQIHe5VBigQ6AEwAHoECAcQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22the%20greater%20density%20of%20population%2C%20leading%20to%20the%20discovery%20of%20opportunities%22&f=false) (Hayek, 1988, p. 40)

For example, a web-designer can trade his services which are dependent on web-design information that resides in his brain for money, and then trade the money for any of the billions of products-services that exist in the world and are likewise dependent on information spread throughout the world. The websites he creates are also enabled by all the information that enabled the "factors of production" he used to create them, like his computer, monitor, keyboard, software, electricity, the Internet, etc., which themselves are enabled by all the information that enabled their "factors of production" like the computer's memory, processor, and so on. Everything that is produced today is the result of an interdependence of information that spans millions of minds, not just in the present, but in the past as well, because wealth that is currently being produced-consumed is dependent on tools-'factors of production'-information provided further in the past. When he upgrades to a better computer, the information that enabled these improvements also contributes to-enables the improvement of his website production process. Without money how would a heart surgeon trade his costly services for toothpicks? Without trade and money, this "division of labor and information" as well as the inter-temporal cooperation-interlocking-stacking of information just described, and the ability to do profit-loss calculation to ensure that each order guides its actions in a manner that it produces more than it consumes, would not exist and neither would our social order which depends on it.