


#### World War Two begins and escalates towards total slaughter.


The most important issue that led to the war was Hitler's reasonable desire to reunite via some railroads and further economic integrations the German city of Danzig(95+% German population and in overwhelming support of reunification) which had been cut off from Germany and made a sort of island overseen by Poland. The reasonableness of Hitler's demands was shared by many prominent Western leaders like former US President Herbert Hoover who criticized the Roosevelt administration for encouraging the Poles to ignore Hitler's legitimate requests. Hoover writes:

>"Another action by Mr. Roosevelt was his influence upon the Poles not to negotiate the question of Danzig. The adamant attitude of the Poles against negotiations received support from the Washington Administration. The separation of the German city of Danzig from Germany, and the size of the Corridor at the time of the part Treaty of Versailles had long been a cause of agitation by the Germans. Both were a part of vengeance and there was merit in the German claims. [I had stated at one time that they should be corrected."](https://books.google.com/books?id=ugFyjRLHPzcC&pg=PT264&lpg=PT264&dq=%22Both+were+a+part+of+vengeance+and+there+was+merit+in+the+German+claims.+I+had+stated+at+one+time+that+they+should+be+corrected.&source=bl&ots=D8uixbrmaY&sig=ACfU3U01JzEYnEht8-U0Qw9VosNrjyhdPQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjE4vWvzvHsAhWniOAKHW-NC-0Q6AEwAHoECAgQAg#v=onepage&q=%22Both%20were%20a%20part%20of%20vengeance%20and%20there%20was%20merit%20in%20the%20German%20claims.%20I%20had%20stated%20at%20one%20time%20that%20they%20should%20be%20corrected.&f=false)


With increasing ill-treatment of the Danzigers at the hands of the polish authorities, who thanks to recently-acquired defense guarantees by England and France could increase their jingoism and negligence of Hitler's legitimate concerns, Hitler finally invaded Poland on Sept. 1, 1939. Hitler had used potential military means to re-unite the 3+ million Sudeten Germans that had been made minorities living in Czechoslovakia and he had also united Austria. Very reasonable things which had the overwhelming support of Germans and reasonable-non-jingoistic politicians. Again, the reasonableness of Hitler’s demands was shared by many prominent Western leaders and was well captured by British ambassador in Berlin, Neville Henderson, in a letter to Sir Horace Wilson who was British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain’s close advisor. Henderson wrote to Wilson:

>“I regard Hitler’s proposals as a fair basis of negotiation and in my innermost heart I regard the Poles as exceedingly unwise to make enemies of Germany and as dangerous allies for us. I am personally convinced that there can be no permanent peace in Europe until Danzig has reverted to Germany. The Poles cannot be masters of 400,000 Germans in Danzig – ergo Germany must be. I fear that we are again on a bad wicket as we were over the Sudeten.”

In a speech before the Reichstag in April 28, 1939, more than 4 months before hostilities began, Hitler said:

>“Danzig is a German city and wishes to belong to Germany… I regarded the peaceful settlement of this problem as a further contribution to the final loosening of the European tension. For loosening of this tension assuredly cannot be achieved through the agitation of insane warmongers, but only through the removal of the real elements of danger…As I have already pointed out, I have always seen the necessity of an access to the sea for this country(Poland) and have consequently taken this necessity into consideration…I considered it necessary, however, to make it clear to the government in Warsaw that, just as they desire access to the sea, so Germany needs access to her province in the East. Now these are all difficult problems. It is not Germany who is responsible for them, however, but rather the jugglers of Versailles who, either in their maliciousness or their thoughtlessness, placed a hundred powder barrels round about in Europe, all equipped with lighted fuses that would be hard to extinguish… Consequently, I have caused the following proposals to be submitted to the Polish Government:

>1. Danzig to return as a Free State into the framework of the German Reich.

>2. Germany to obtain a route through the Corridor and a railway line for herself with the same extra-territorial status for Germany as the Corridor itself has for Poland.

>In return, Germany is prepared:

>1. To recognize all Polish economic rights in Danzig.

>2. To insure Poland of a free harbor in Danzig of any size desired, giving her completely free access to the sea.

>3. To accept at the same time the present boundaries between Germany and Poland and to regard them as final.

>4. To conclude a twenty-five-year non-aggression treaty with Poland, a treaty therefore which would extend far beyond the duration of my own life;…”

Referring to Hitler, famed British war historian B. H. Liddell Hart wrote:

>“At first he did not think of moving against Poland—even though she possessed the largest stretch of territory carved out of Germany after World War I…Hitler was inclined to accept Poland as a junior partner for the time being, on condition that she handed back the German port of Danzig and granted Germany a free route to East Prussia through the Polish ‘Corridor’. On Hitler’s part, it was a remarkably moderate demand in the circumstances. But in successive discussions that winter, Hitler found that the Poles were obstinately disinclined to make any such concessions, and also had an inflated idea of their own strength. Even so, he continued to hope that they would come round after further negotiation. As late as March 25 he told his Army Commander-in-Chief that he ‘did not wish to solve the Danzig problem by the use of force.’” (Hart, pp. 9-10)


>“…The Polish Guarantee was the surest way to produce an early explosion, and a world war…It incited Hitler to demonstrate the futility of such a guarantee to a country out or reach from the West, while making the stiff-necked Poles even less inclined to consider any concession to him, and at the same time making it impossible for him to draw back without ‘losing face’.

>Why did Poland’s rulers accept such a fatal offer? Partly because they had an absurdly exaggerated idea of the power of their out of date forces—they boastfully talked of a ‘cavalry ride to Berlin’. Partly because of personal factors: Colonel Beck, shortly afterwards, said that he made up his mind to accept the British offer between ‘two flicks of the ash’ off the cigarette he was smoking. He went on to explain that at his meeting with Hitler in January he had found it hard to swallow Hitler’s remark that Danzig ‘must’ be handed back, and that when the British offer was communicated to him he saw it, and seized it, as a chance to give Hitler a slap in the face. This impulse was only too typical of the ways in which the fate of peoples if often decided.” (Hart, pp. 11-12)

Prof. Denson writes:

>“The real irony of the beginning of World War II is that it started over Danzig and the Polish Corridor question, which both the British and French political leaders found to be the most indefensible part of the treaty and one which most needed to be revised peacefully. Hitler made numerous offers to the Allies and to Poland for settlement of the corridor question, one being to take Danzig back and letting the people inside the corridor remain subjects of the Polish government. Another offer was to let the people within the corridor vote on which government they wanted. The British and the French, who were formal allies of Poland, pushed the Poles to accept these offers from Hitler. Britain and France also requested that President Roosevelt push the Poles to accept Hitler’s offers, but Roosevelt refused even to discuss the matter with Poland’s representatives. The Polish government arrogantly refused even to reply to these offers, and Hitler finally attacked Poland on September 1, 1939. Because of their treaty obligations, France and England then declared war against Germany on September 3 but refused to assist Poland in any way. Hitler had not expected the British and French to go to war over a treaty provision that they knew and declared to him to be completely unfair to Germany and to her people located in Danzig and the corridor.” (Denson J. V., 2001, p. 480)


>The French and British war on Germany was called "the phony war" because there was little activity on either side. However, in April and May of 1940, the Germans shocked the world by defeating the French in about thirty-five days of combat and drove an Allied army of 335,000 men, who were mostly British, to the beach at Dunkirk where they were hopelessly trapped. Hitler gave orders to allow the helpless British army to escape in order to demonstrate dramatically that he had no quarrel with the British and desperately wanted to negotiate a treaty with them. He thought that a massacre at Dunkirk would inflame British public opinion and preclude a settlement with them. However, Winston Churchill became prime minister on May 10, 1940, and not only did he refuse to negotiate, but he immediately initiated bombing raids on German cities and civilians. War propaganda by the Allies, including America, has always stated that Hitler started the bombing of cities with his attack on the British city of Coventry, but the records now clearly indicate that Churchill initiated this. Taylor, the British historian, comments on this propaganda by stating that there was "almost universal belief that Hitler started the indiscriminate bombing of civilians, whereas it was started by the directors of British strategy as some of the more honest among them have boasted." During the summer of 1940, after the bombing of civilians in German cities by the British, Hitler again tried desperately to reach a settlement with Churchill, but Churchill flatly refused to negotiate. It was not until November 1940 that Hitler retaliated by bombing British civilians and cities that were not military targets, such as Coventry. (Denson J. V., 2001, pp. 481-2)


On July 8th 1940 Churchill writes to the Minister of Aircraft Production:

>“When I look around to see how we can win the war I see that there is only one sure path. We have no Continental army which can defeat the German military power.. Should [Hitler].. not try invasion [of Britain].. there is one thing that will bring him back and bring him down, and that is an absolutely devastating, exterminating attack by very heavy bombers from this country upon the Nazi homeland. We must be able to overwhelm them by this means, without which I do not see a way through. We cannot accept any aim lower than air mastery."

With respect to Churchill’s escalation of the bombing and Hitler’s desire to avert war with England, Boog, Krebs, & Vogel write:

>“The Royal Air Force meanwhile began its air raids on targets in Germany east of the Rhine on 5 May 1940...Because of the totally inadequate bombsights of the Bomber Command bombers and the resulting horrendous inaccuracy, these strikes had the effect of terror raids on towns and villages, even though they were intended to be directed against military and industrial targets. The Luftwaffe made its first raids on military and economic objects in England only about seven weeks after the conclusion of the French campaign... As Hitler was still hoping Britain might give in, he expressly forbade attacks on London and against civilian targets. Crews were punished if they did so nevertheless, deliberately or unintentionally. It was in this situation that, during the night of 24/5 August 1940, a few German bombs were inadvertently dropped on the London area. Even British press at the time described the damage as exceedingly slight, and the official British history later confirmed that this had been a mistake by a German bomber. Churchill, however, exaggerated and exploited this incident to bring about a further escalation of the bombing war by ordering air attacks on Berlin.”  (Boog, Krebs, & Vogel, pp. 362-3)

One British RAF member described a bombing operation as follows:

>"Normally it was not difficult to find the target area but almost impossible to be anywhere near a specific target, so we just dropped the bombs at an estimated position and hoped for the best. I very much doubt if we ever hit a specific target” (Neillands, p. 38)

Only one in five planes was able to drop its bombs within 5 miles of intended target.

Arthur ‘Bomber’ Harris, the eventual head of British Bomber Command, saw civilian death as necessary, encouraged, and totally justified. He wrote that:

>“It should be emphasized that the destruction of houses, public utilities, transport and lives; the creation of a refugee problem on an unprecedented scale; and the breakdown of morale both at home and at the battle fronts by fear of extended and intensified bombing, are accepted and intended aims of bombing policy. They are not by-products of attempts to hit factories.”


On September 4th, 1940 Hitler gave a speech and said:

>“It is truly magnificent to see our Volk at war and its total discipline. We realize this all the more in a time when Mr. Churchill is demonstrating to us the use of his invention: the nightly air raid. He does not do this because air raids at night are particularly effective, but because his Air Force cannot penetrate German airspace during the day. While the German pilots, the German planes, fly over English land day by day, no Englishman has yet managed to as much as cross the North Sea by daylight. That is why they come at night and drop their bombs-you know it well-indiscriminately and without plan on civilian residential centers, on farmsteads, and villages. Wherever they see a light, they drop a bomb.”

The inaccurate nighttime British bombers kept on coming. Churchill succeeded at “bring him back” when on September 7th Hitler began the famous ‘Blitz’ where many British cities would be frequently bombed for 8 months (till May 11th 1941) leading to the deaths of 40,000 people. Yet these bombings were still not purposeful annihilations of civilians. This is less than 170 people per day in one of the biggest metropolis (London) in the world with 8.5 million inhabitants at the time. Hayek, who was living in London during the 'Blitz' writes to his friend, economist Fritz Machlup, on Oct. 13th 1940:

>"Life here in London is amazingly unchanged. Some night [sic] have been unpleasant, and once or twice even we out here have had bombs uncomfortably close. But on the whole, the effects of the German attacks are―at least in the part of London which I regularly see―extraordinarily small. I think any visitor who did not know would think that London had been bombed for one night rather than for one month."

In Operation Gomorrah which began on July 24, 1943 and lasted just 8 days, the British and U.S bombed Hamburg and tied the ‘Blitz’ by also killing over 40,000 people (5,000 per day) and injuring another 30,000 with many more left homeless. At the time it had been the most intense and deadly bombing in history and would later be called the ‘Hiroshima of Germany’ by some British officials.  But by this time the British and Americans were not needlessly slaughtering fellow homo sapiens, they were slaughtering the progenitors and offspring of the evil Nazis.


The sudden outbreak of World War One gave little time for war-time hysteria, propaganda and vilification to do its job, yet a few years of propaganda by some British newspapermen and politicians had turned World War One Germans into Belgian-children’s-arms-ripping-militaristic-Huns. The Second World War, especially given Hitler’s propaganda war with Jews would give 6 pre-war years plus another 5 hysterical war-torn years for anti-German propaganda-hysteria to reach stratospheric levels. Unlike at the end of World War One where besides the British hunger blockade the civilian German population was unharmed and able to partake in post-war dialogue and anti-German propaganda quickly subsided, post-World War Two Germany was completely destroyed with a vengeful occupation that made it impossible to counter-balance the propaganda onslaught which reached levels where any atrocity story, no matter how outlandish, especially if it pertained to Jews, could be made (or fabricated-exaggerated). Consider what is in all likelihood the biggest lie ever told by a US President to the American public. On October 27th 1941 (40 days before the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor brought USA into World War Two) US President Franklin Roosevelt made a nationally broadcasted speech where he told the American public that Hitler wanted to conquer Latin America and the US, abolish all faiths and setup a global Nazi Church. Just mindblowing. FDR mentioned:

>“Hitler has often protested that his plans for conquest do not extend across the Atlantic Ocean. But his submarines and raiders prove otherwise. So does the entire design of his new world order. For example, I have in my possession a secret map made in Germany by Hitler’s government — by the planners of the new world order. It is a map of South America and a part of Central America, as Hitler proposes to reorganize it. Today in this area there are 14 separate countries. The geographical experts of Berlin, however, have ruthlessly obliterated all existing boundary lines; and have divided South America into five vassal states, bringing the whole continent under their domination. And they have also so arranged it that the territory of one of these new puppet states includes the Republic of Panama and our great life line — the Panama Canal. That is his plan. It will never go into effect. This map makes clear the Nazi design not only against South America but against the United States itself. 

It is somewhat easy to understand how the above statements might seem credible to a public constantly bombarded with war-time propaganda, but what Roosevelt mentioned next and the American public’s belief of it is remarkable:

>"Your Government was in its possession another document made in Germany by Hitler’s government. It is a detailed plan, which, for obvious reasons, the Nazis did not wish and do not wish to publicize just yet, but which they are ready to impose a little later on a dominated world — if Hitler wins. It is a plan to abolish all existing religions — Protestant, Catholic, Mohammedan, Hindu, Buddhist, and Jewish alike. The property of all churches will be seized by the Reich and its puppets. The cross and all other symbols of religion are to be forbidden. The clergy are to be forever silenced under penalty of the concentration camps, where even now so many fearless men are being tortured because they have placed God above Hitler. In the place of the churches of our civilization, there is to be set up an international Nazi church — a church which will be served by orators sent out by the Nazi government. In the place of the Bible, the words of Mein Kampf will be imposed and enforced as Holy Writ. And in place of the cross of Christ will be put two symbols — the swastika and the naked sword. A god of blood and iron will take the place of the God of love and mercy. Let us well ponder that statement which I have made tonight.”

Replace the Bible and all religions for an international Nazi church???!!!? When a whopping 95% of Germans were Catholics or Protestants? Again, it seems hard to believe that the slightly smarter apes could believe such absurdities, but, we are what we are. Needless to say, just like with World War One, the ape-hatreds understandably led to evolution of a German or "Nazi" "identity" that was more maniacal than the World War One "Huns", with Hitler of course being the most evil of all monsters who would of course gas to death women and babies. 

