
### Drug prohibition, its history, and race relations.

Mind altering substances have been a constant part in our recent evolutionary history. Such drugs have helped our minds ease their powerful soberness, and by screwing up that reality-minded functioning of our brains, drugs have helped us interact, or better said, create, the spiritual world, which as already discussed, has been such a key factor in our evolution. Some drugs make us more relaxed and better able to bond with others, some drugs excite us and give us a feeling of invincibility which might have been helpful in overcoming our fear in preparation for an always brutal war-confrontation. The bottom line is that when one looks at the evolutionary history of mankind, mind altering substances have been a common trait in our cultures. Besides the obvious reasons that people do drugs because they like them, drug use has been a cultural trait that has been naturally selected for. If it was so detrimental and played such an important and negative role in society, it is a trait that would have been damaging to those societies that had it and would have led to their cultural extinction, but again, the fact that it has been common in all cultures gives some powerful evidence that it has had a net beneficiary effect.

Some might say that on the contrary, that the tough drug war and moral depravity associated with drug use has been a key ingredient in creating a better society. In today’s world we can’t get high around some fire and then drive a car. But this is non-sense, the vast majority of drug users are easily able to understand and control such risks. Alcohol is a far worse drug than marijuana yet millions incorporate it into their functioning without any problems. And probably the biggest problem with alcohol, drunk driving related accidents, are more the result of our bad laws. A person who is high on a drug easily knows that he-she is impaired and should this person need to drive he could compensate by driving a lot slower and perhaps with blinkers or some other signal letting people know that “I am impaired”. But given our laws this would ruin your life so you have no choice but to surrender your good judgment which is more than capable of dealing and planning for its future impaired state. Anyways, this is not the book for going into detail about drugs.

An important factor in our drug prohibition is rooted in our desire to restrain the actions of others; actions which we feel might put us at a disadvantage in some regard. For example, one of the things we like about marriage between a man and a woman and all the social pressures we use to push for this, is because we fear a guy who is a stud who will do better with many women, and likewise, women fear other women luring their men away and so on. The ideologies which we adhere to have a lot to do with incentives and how we see ourselves succeeding or failing given the world lived according to such ideologies. For example, if you see yourself as being very beautiful with a killer body compared to others, you might be ok with people wearing skimpy dresses and would be less likely to shun such behavior. If on the other hand you are fat and ugly, you might shun such behavior and have your mind inadvertently gravitate towards ideologies which associate such behavior with bad things. If you are the nerdy kid who for whatever reason never managed to absorb the much more fun culture of recreational drug use and sex, your mind might inadvertently gravitate more towards an ideology that restricts such behavior. So we can assume that people who are less likely to feel threatened by what others might do with their freedom tend to be more tolerant of freedom. And similarly, people who tend to be less tolerant of freedom are more likely to feel threatened by what others do with their freedom.

This applies perfectly to drug prohibition. The prohibition of drugs is a strategy for preventing others from perhaps succeeding at being more social and gaining the benefits that come from this and the history of drug prohibition clearly shows this to have been an important motivating factor. Black men inherited a culture of more sexual and drug freedom and were in a position to not fear sexual-drug freedom, so they were more likely to push the envelope.

Harry J. Anslinger, the nation’s first Drug Czar, before Congress in 1937 said “There are 100,000 total marijuana smokers in the U.S. and most are Negroes, Hispanics, Filipinos and entertainers. Their satanic music, jazz and swing, result from marijuana use. This marijuana causes white women to seek sexual relations with Negroes.”

What was happening was that jazz music was the cool music and blacks were just having more fun or better said, spreading a more fun environment-culture that was more in tune with our human nature. The down-to-earth white girls wanted to be where the fun, dancing and happy guys were, and that was in the jazz scene, and quite naturally there were plenty of happy and high black guys looking to score. Similar interracial fears were at play in some of our very first drug prohibitions, in this case involving Opium and the Chinese that brought it over here.  In San Francisco in 1875 when the City of San Francisco passed the first laws aimed at prohibiting drug use.

>“The roots of this ordinance were racist rather than health-oriented, and were concerned with what today is known as "life-style." Opium smoking was introduced into the United States by tens of thousands of Chinese men and boys imported during the l850s and 1880s to build the great Western railroads. The Chinese laborers then drifted into San Francisco and other cities, and accepted employment of various kinds at low wages --- giving rise to waves of anti-Chinese hostility. Soon white men and even women were smoking opium side by side with the Chinese, a life-style which was widely disapproved. The San Francisco authorities, we are told learned upon investigation that "many women and young girls, as well as young men of respectable family, were being induced to visit the [Chinese] opium-smoking dens, where they were ruined morally and otherwise”

 
The following quote by former U.S. president Gerald Nixon’s staffer John Ehrlichman really shows how racism towards black men was the leading motivating factor in Nixon’s escalation of the “War on Drugs”:

>“The Nixon campaign in 1968, and the Nixon White House after that, had two enemies: the antiwar left and black people. You understand what I’m saying? We knew we couldn’t make it illegal to be either against the war or black, but by getting the public to associate the hippies with marijuana and blacks with heroin, and then criminalizing both heavily, we could disrupt those communities. We could arrest their leaders, raid their homes, break up their meetings, and vilify them night after night on the evening news. Did we know we were lying about the drugs? Of course we did.”

 
Having briefly discussed the true racial/sociological motivations for the origins of the “war on drugs” let’s quickly discuss why the war on drugs is so awful and “unwinnable”(for those haters who actually want to win it). Economics and our inability to understand the workings of the modern world play a key role here as well. In a simpler tribal world, if you had a drug problem like some people think we do today and wanted to get rid of it by killing the bad guys, you would gather the necessary resources, which would be synonymous with increasing taxes to fund the drug war today, find the bad guys, kill them, problem solved. So in today’s world we create our government tentacle-bureaucracy and get it to root out the bad guys, and believe that that will make things better at some point. But this is not what happens. Let’s begin with the source of the “problem”. People like drugs, humanity has for all of mankind, and this is reflected in our desire to trade money for them. Since drugs are illegal, if you sell them you can go to jail for a long time, so this greatly reduces the incentive to create and sell the drugs. The average price of a drug will tend to be the total amount of money being offered by society divided by the total amount of drugs available for sale. Since society wants the drugs, and is offering lots of money for them, and there is few drugs because it is illegal to make/sell them, the amount of money that goes to each unit of drug is very high, so the price of drugs is very high. This high price of drugs motivates people to break the law and go into the drug trafficking business, especially if you are poor or from a poorer country and can sell drugs for a high price in the U.S. Every drug bust that the police make does the following. First it incarcerates people for a long time at a cost of about $31,000 per year per inmate (in NYC it is a whopping $168,000). This means that $31,000 worth of wealth will be consumed from the economic pie by everyone employed in the legal and penal system. This is a complete loss of wealth because the economic pie gains nothing as this wealth is being consumed.  The loss is far greater when one takes into account the families that will be broken up, the children who will spend years without a mother-father and so on. Second, the bust reduces the supply of drugs which simply means that their price will go up or stay high, once again increasing the incentive for more people to get into the drug trafficking business. Third, a bust simply removes a competitor and makes it easier for a new competitor to sell the drugs. So a cycle that never ends takes place. Drug traffickers enter the market to exploit the high profits caused by the high prices offered for drugs, busts are made which remove competitors at a high cost to society and drives up the price of drugs, which motivates new competitors to enter the drug trafficking business and the cycle just continues like a tsunami wreaking havoc on the social order, consuming more wealth as people are incarcerated, destroying more lives and families.

The high price of drugs is a measure of the large amount of wealth that is consumed from the economic pie by the millions of people in the drug business. The high price of illegal drugs pays for the drug dealers who work many hours just to secretly move small amounts of matter-drugs; it has to pay for the bribes of officers, complex concealment of shipments, weapons, etc. This is why a kilogram of cocaine might cost $200 to create in a Bolivian jungle yet sell for $20,000 in New York City. The $200 pays for the consumption of all the things the farmers in Bolivia need to live, the other $19,800 help sustain the aforementioned dealers, mercenaries, corrupt politicians-police and so on. If drugs were legalized, no wealth would have to be consumed by such activities thus lowering their price to that of your average multivitamin. Instead of having millions of people consuming billions of dollars’ worth of wealth as they made a living doing the expensive aforementioned activities, you would simply get a small increase in the people employed in the pharmaceutical and agricultural industry. People would not make a living by growing pot in their houses because they would not be able to sell the pot profitably due to competition from large and modern agribusiness. These people would be employed in other areas helping further increase the economic pie.

Since people in relatively poorer countries (Colombia, Mexico,etc.) have a bigger incentive to go into the drug-trafficking business since they can more easily hide their activities from the US government and also have lower costs of labor, they are more likely to grow the various drug cartels. The US government then gives money to arm and train the police in those countries to help crack down on the cartels leading to brutal mini-civil wars in those countries at great human cost.

Since alcohol consumption has been wildly popular and desirable for thousands of years, when the US prohibited it in 1919 huge sums of money were to be made by those who broke the law in order to satisfy the desires/demand of millions of Americans. If law enforcement does a good job at catching alcoholic beverage producers, that just means that there will be even more money available per unit of beverage thus a higher price, this process guarantees that eventually the price is high enough to pay bribes to police. Cops have an incentive for things to be illegal because now they can make extra money by just looking the other way and the fact that there will be a higher demand for cops to fight the illegal activity; it is a win/win situation for law enforcement. So eventually the price gets high enough to lure cops to break the law. If the cops are incorruptible that just means that the price gets higher until eventually it is profitable to begin killing cops too. The bottom line is that making anything illegal guarantees that you will create an illegal market(a ‘black market’)  for it, which WILL ALWAYS EXIST!!! Whether it is drugs/alcohol/prostitution/gambling/etc., all that prohibition does is inadvertently skew or morph the social order in consumptive/expensive and disastrous ways. Whatever product is prohibited is also deteriorated in various ways. Drug traffickers, in order to increase their profits often times dilute the products to various degrees creating drugs with different potencies. Sometimes a drug user overdoses because he/she expects a lower potency but ingests a higher one. If drugs were legal they would be of good quality with labels that properly described their potency just like current alcoholic beverages. Again, they would be very cheap, few people would be in financial stress due to their habit. Families would not be bankrupted or broken apart due to the financial stresses that the current high cost of drugs place on some people. Prostitution would be cleaner, safer, free from violence by pimps, police, or customers. I already discussed why we might fear or dislike people going into prostitution but these dislikes can still be remedied via freedom and things like shame, and thanks to the internet a reputation that really sticks with you. But this is assuming that society continues down the path where for whatever reason we want to ban or feel negatively affected by the freedom of other people to do certain things. Freedom is what is needed to discover the superior alternative and culture. Ok, I’m getting a little off topic here so back to drugs.  

Meet Doug, a 28 year old computer programmer, who uses cocaine about once every couple of months at parties. Like your average recreational drug user, he is not some desperate, jobless, petty criminal living from high to high. He is an average human being who has ambitions, a family, and a productive job that adds wealth to society. He just wasn’t a nerd who bought into the whole “fear” of drugs when he was in high school. He had good friends that did it from time to time, they seemed to be enjoying life better and were in control of what they were doing. They were happier, more relaxed and confident, which made them more attractive to the girls. The girls enjoyed being with happy cool guys and the guys enjoyed the girls. They had more sex and fun. Ohh, and Doug didn’t buy the cocaine from some sinister “evil” person who commits thefts or robberies or harms anyone in any way; he bought it from his friend Antonio who sells as a way to supply his friends and to supplement the income from his day job at the local auto-parts store. 

It is ironic how today’s baby boomer generation politicians play the fear card, trying to get America’s youth not to do drugs, when so many of them did them in their youth(Gore, Bush, Clinton, Gingrich, Obama…). The real reason why politicians have to seem so tough on drugs, is because they have to appeal to that large segment of the population that is resentful, or a bit fearful, of the fun others have. These people have an additional incentive to gravitate towards more religious fervor than others. It should be no surprise that drug prohibition seems like a bigger deal to the Conservative-Republican party masses who portray themselves as being more religious. I’m not saying that all people who are for the drug war are these resentful people, or that religious individuals are of this type. Many people envision the real dangers which drug abuse might lead to and want to help prevent them. I just want to bring attention to this important “competitive-behavior-suppressing” role that in many ways our religious institutions have evolved to carry out. Something similar to this but in a greater scale took part during the Iranian Islamic Revolution of 1979. Prior to the revolution, many in Iran had been westernized to the point where it had many bars that sold alcohol, discos, cinemas that even showed nudity, and  was in many ways indistinguishable from Europe. But eventually a pent up resentment and various other factors(as already discussed) exploded in the revolution and such symbols of “decadence” were burned down and destroyed. 

So Doug gets stopped for a broken taillight and eventually busted for carrying 10 grams of cocaine and gets a mandatory 5 year sentence. The social order now loses Doug’s productivity as a computer programmer plus $155,000 in wealth like cars, homes, food, etc., that will have to be consumed in order to feed and clothe for 5 years an ever-expanding U.S. criminal-industrial-complex made up of inmates, jailors, cops, jail building companies, etc. From 1984 to 1996, California built 21 new prisons, and only one new university. In 2006 there were a whopping 1,889,810 drug related arrests, of which almost 830,000 were related to marijuana , which is relatively harmless, and much less so than alcohol.  Just try to imagine all the wealth that is consumed from society as we feed, clothe and equip the criminal-industrial-complex as it does this useless function. There is also Elena, a high school mate of Doug’s who due to upbringing and many other factors was not one of the popular girls who had enough common sense to do drugs responsibly and grew up resentful. Her ideology drifted more towards those of people who think drug users are “bad” people, and are more inclined to think/wish that there is something “wrong” with them. She got a degree in psychiatry and counseling and became a psychiatrist at our jails, “counseling” people like Doug, helping them overcome their “problems” which turned them to drug use. Angry and distraught, one day Doug told Elena to go to hell and later in the day he threw a temper tantrum where he destroyed some of his cell and threw stuff outside between the bars causing him to lose even more freedoms. But fortunately for Doug, Elena felt like she was a caring woman and wanted to give Doug a chance to regain his freedoms. She told Doug that “the reason why you are having these irrational bursts of anger is because you might have a chemical imbalance in your brain which perhaps even played a role in your initial drug-use. Just do the right thing and take these medications which will help you with your attitude and you will get your freedoms back Doug. But you have to be reasonable Doug, I am here to help you but first you have to help yourself by doing what you know is right.”  Doug is now caught in the deadly jaws of both the Drug War as well as the Psychiatric industry.

I once met a woman who was getting a PhD in psychology and wanted to do her doctoral dissertation in children with mystical powers. She told me that even if it seems a little far-fetched she had read a lot about them and research needed to be done to verify such things and what could be learned from them. She had a high-paying part-time job counseling people in a Miami jail, helping them understand why theft was bad and overcome whatever was “wrong” with them. Doug and countless others, have to agree and admit that there is something “wrong” with themselves in front of the Elenas of the world, who make up the majority of our parole boards and employees of the criminal-industrial-complex. 

One should also keep in mind that if a taxpayer refuses to pay the taxes that go to feed this socially destructive drug-war, the taxpayer will be locked up too, causing yet another $31,000 per year to be further consumed by force from the social order to feed an army of politically correct zombies.

One of the examples of our current drug laws’ more blatant racism comes from the discrepancy in sentencing between being busted for crack cocaine and powdered cocaine. Crack cocaine is cheaper and more predominantly used by lower income blacks yet the punishment for using crack is much more severe. For example, you might get a mandatory 5 year sentence for carrying 5 grams of crack cocaine, yet you would need to carry maybe 500 grams of the powdered cocaine to get hit with same sentence. As mentioned in drugwarfacts.com :

>“In 1986, before mandatory minimums for crack offenses became effective, the average federal drug offense sentence for blacks was 11% higher than for whites. Four years later following the implementation of harsher drug sentencing laws, the average federal drug offense sentence was 49% higher for blacks.”
 
There was a time when kids could go to drugstores and buy anything and people could take any substance and people weren’t all high and unproductive. Few people would consider jailing a grown man and taking him away from his children and job because he abuses alcohol and gets drunk from time to time at parties in responsible ways, yet someone who does a little cocaine or heroin is somehow treated different, as some sort of irresponsible ‘evil-doer’. If drugs were legal, instead of having mostly just alcohol, people would have more choices and the normal consequences and incentives related to their use would ensure that they would be used responsibly. Consequences are all that we need to help mankind discover how to best go about utilizing its freedom. The bottom line is that drugs don’t screw people’s lives, it is getting busted and the financial and other stresses that the drug war causes as well as the socioeconomic problems people have that lead them to abuse drugs in the first place.

Next I have to tell the story of Rachel Harrison even though it has nothing to do with race. Rachel was a newborn when Child Protection Services took her away from her responsible and loving parents for the “crime” of recreational marijuana use even though CPS personnel never found the parents to have abused or neglected her in any way. Eventually her parents got her back but when she was 3 years old her mother had an appendectomy and this time they found cocaine in her system, a drug both parents responsibly used and never got in the way of being responsible, hardworking, and caring adults. This time, instead of just being mistreated and neglected by a foster system that cared little about her, a psychiatrist who worked for CPS put her on multiple psychiatric drugs like Risperdal which even according to the medical establishment should not be given to kids under 10. Next time her parents were allowed to see her she had become a “drooling, lethargic, emaciated little girl”. The parents asked CPS if she had been given psychiatric drugs but they would lie to them and tell them she wasn’t. Eventually, after a drawn out legal battle (I’m sure costly too) they got her back. “You are powerless against these people. They hold all the cards and they will do whatever they want.” Said the father in an interview. “There is paperwork saying she was screaming for mommy and daddy, and the easiest way to handle her acting up was to medicate her.” Said the mother. According to the Government Accountability Office, about a fourth of all 425,000 children in foster care are given psychiatric drugs with many being forced to take doses higher than the FDA approves.  In Texas, children in foster care are 53 times more likely to be put on more than FIVE drugs simultaneously than children not in foster care. Foster parents who refuse to put children in psychiatric medications can lose the kids if they don’t do so. I really, really hate psychiatry.

The drug war needs to be ended immediately and the millions of people in jail or harassed by it should be freed from such bondage. This would be the quickest way to improve the lives of African Americans as a whole.
