

### Freedom vs. Racism.

Let’s immediately say a few things about how freedom and competition are also the solution to the “economic racism” so many people fear.

First of all, businesses-people that refuse to do business with people due to race will do less business, thus make less profit, and thus be more likely to be out-competed by those that do not discriminate. This by itself creates the necessary incentives to help eradicate a racist culture and replace it with a more tolerant one which is precisely what we are seeing as the global freemarket integrates more fellow homo sapiens. But let’s examine things deeper.

If you are a CEO-investor-owner of a company, do you want the people doing the hiring to be “racist” and forego better qualified (more productive) blacks-minorities-etc. at the expense of profits?  Let’s say Edward, an evil racist white man, owns a business that has a workforce of say 100 white employees and pays each on average about $40,000 per year and could replace 10 of them for equally qualified blacks-minorities who would be willing to work for $35,000 per year. By hiring minorities he could be profiting $5,000 more per year per employee for an extra $5,000 x 10 employees = $50,000 per year. Is his racism or preference enough to give up $50,000 per year? Or does he rather curb his own racism and preach tolerance within his company so he can make the extra $50,000? So as one can see, there are financial incentives that motivate people to curb whatever racist attitudes they might have. But there is more than just incentives, there is competition which forces racism to be diminished. Edward’s less racist or more tolerant competitors who hire the blacks-minorities-etc. will be able to sell for less thus forcing Edward to also curb his racism or go out of business.

During the days of slavery the world was still pretty simple, especially in the South where agriculture played such a dominant role in the economy. It was easy to see how freedom could lead to prosperity. Besides the obvious freedom from bondage and torture, blacks wanted the freedom to own their own plot of land, to go into business by themselves and keep for themselves everything that their labor produced. But in today’s world of larger corporations and a tremendously complicated productive structure where hardly anyone produces a physical good-product directly for the market, this sort of freedom can scare us, especially when most of the CEOs and the upper echelons of management are likely to be whites(or Chinese and Indian the way things are going). Back in the simpler days, most people were either self-employed, or employed in small businesses, which is not the case today, even “small” businesses, according to the US definition, can have up to 500 employees. People now have to join these mini social orders instead of seemingly selling-producing directly for the public, and if these companies are largely headed by whites who might prefer other whites to a certain degree, then you get this fear of so called “institutional racism”. We no longer see our prosperity based on how we can help produce something, we see it based on how we can “find a job”, or based on “who is going to give us a job”, as if jobs were these things that were in some kind of limited supply. But by now we know this is economic nonsense. There are as many jobs as people willing to trade their labor for a price others are willing to pay. If minimum wage legislation makes it a criminal activity to trade your labor for less than some amount, then yes, there will seemingly be a lack of “jobs”. The word “job” itself can be misleading and provides an example of where the meaning of words and language gets us into trouble. People can be seen as producing their labor, labor which businessmen-others have to compete for in order to incorporate such labor with their productive plans. And again, working is just trading, so-called companies are just mini social orders of people constantly trading with each other to help produce a good or service.

Again, at a fundamental level, natural selection selects for order, for social order, which means it selects for knowledge that leads to more productivity, and a “racist” business culture will be less productive and thus outcompeted and eventually die out, so that the businesses(or the sort of pockets of knowledge which businesses represent) which remain will be less and less racist-tribal and more and more strictly focused on productive ability and the mutual respect that it fosters. The bottom line is that racism-tribalism is naturally selected against and we see signs of this everywhere, the world is far less racist-tribal as time has gone by and free markets have integrated more and more people all over the world.  Most Americans probably prefer to deal with or hire other Americans, yet American companies are expanding in places like China or wherever there is enough freedom to make profits, and this profit motive forces profit-seekers(everyone) into cooperating and ultimately dropping the tribal and ethnocentric culture we have inherited from our more tribal past. The examples I’ve just mentioned apply not just to so called racism, but to “sexism”, overweight-ism, or whatever other “ism” which supposedly “oppresses” some group of people in a free society. Ultimately what is selected for is productive capacity and thus cooperation and mutual respect and sympathy regardless of age, sex, race, sexual preference, etc.

Improvements in race relations have not come about mainly thanks to the efforts of “great leaders” like the much hyped Martin Luther King. Just like ideas and innovations are more the result of the market process than they are of the individual who had the fortune of having some concepts coalesce in his mind in a way that led to a great invention, so too has the equal treatment of people come about thanks to the economic incentives that united people of all backgrounds in attempts to make bigger profits and remain competitive. Actually, not just the economic incentives, the freedom that allows people to interact with each other and inevitably come to the truth that all human beings are far more alike than the ethnocentric views-identities we had inherited from our past. In order to win more championships with which to lure more fans and sell more tickets the Brooklyn Dodgers broke the color barrier in sports by hiring Jackie Robinson in 1947, soon others would follow in all professional sports. By the time Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated in 1968 helping to launch him to political martyrdom status, black musicians had enamored an entire generation of Americans and Europeans and people all over the world. Go to England or Spain or Germany and see if anyone has ever heard of Martin Luther King; you’ll have a hard time finding people who do, but take your average 40+ year old person in any one of these countries and ask him-her to hymn along to chart-topping songs from The Supremes, The Temptations, Stevie Wonder and so on; you are likely to find millions. Martin Luther King’s contributions towards the success of African Americans and minorities are insignificant compared to those of these musicians and the musical entrepreneurs who helped launch their careers like the founder of Motown Record Corporation, Berry Gordy Jr.. Actually, MLK’s contributions have been tremendously detrimental. You see, like most other prominent black political leaders and intellectuals he had little understanding of economics, and for reasons already hinted at, his socioeconomic views leaned more towards Socialism. One of today’s leading mainstream African American intellectuals, Michael Eric Dyson writes:


>“King also contended, in 1967, that “the roots [of economic injustice] are in the system rather than in men or faulty operations.” In a remarkable statement in a speech he gave to his staff in 1966, King laid out the ideological basis for his deepened assault on poverty, economic injustice, and class inequality:

>>We are now making demands that will cost the nation something. You can’t talk about solving the economic problem of the Negro without talking about billions of dollars. You can’t talk about ending slums without first saying profit must be taken out of slums. You’re really tampering and getting on dangerous ground because you are messing with folk then. You are messing with the captains of industry….Now this means that we are treading in difficult waters, because it really means that we are saying that something is wrong… with capitalism….There must be a better distribution of wealth and maybe America must move toward a Democratic Socialism

>This statement is remarkable since King rarely allowed his positive response to democratic socialism to be recorded. His usual practice, according to one of his aides, was to demand that they “turn off the tape recorder” while he expounded on the virtues of “what he called democratic socialism, and he said, ‘I can’t say this publicly, and if you say I said it I’m not gonna admit to it.’ ” King “didn’t believe that capitalism as it was constructed could meet the needs of poor people” ” [(Dyson,"I may not Get There with You: The True Martin Luther King, Jr" p. 88)](https://books.google.com/books?id=F7ljj_iyQcwC&pg=PA87&lpg=PA87&dq=%22King+also+contended,+in+1967,+that+%E2%80%9Cthe+roots+%5Bof+economic+injustice%5D+are+in+the+system+rather+than+in+men%22&source=bl&ots=aiAd2iTj9v&sig=ACfU3U2wI2T3iw9aW7v1OF8Qx75vPbFZsA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjG6s78xvjmAhWVnp4KHbATCZYQ6AEwAHoECAEQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22King%20also%20contended%2C%20in%201967%2C%20that%20%E2%80%9Cthe%20roots%20%5Bof%20economic%20injustice%5D%20are%20in%20the%20system%20rather%20than%20in%20men%22&f=false)


So understandably MLK had to keep his Socialist socioeconomic views under wraps but it was hard to conceal the fact that he was often surrounded by communists. Another famous American black leader, Malcolm X, sent a letter to President Truman letting him know that [“I have always been a communist”](https://books.google.com/books?id=RownbjVryWIC&pg=PT124&lpg=PT124&dq=%22I+have+always+been+a+communist%22+malcolm+x&source=bl&ots=0zculHF59I&sig=ACfU3U08S-Up8-ZXAnVbSZs0_Df5Bu7CdA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwiAopS3x_jmAhVTop4KHbaxAzgQ6AEwAnoECAgQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22I%20have%20always%20been%20a%20communist%22%20malcolm%20x&f=false). Perhaps the most famous international black leader, South Africa’s Nelson Mandela who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993 is also a Socialist ideologue. In a statement at the beginning of the trial that would send him to jail for 27 years he said:

>“We all accept the need for some form of socialism to enable our people to catch up with the advanced countries of this world and to overcome their legacy of extreme poverty...I should tie myself to no particular system of society other than of [socialism.” ](https://books.google.com/books?id=beRL3schM0kC&pg=RA2-PA206&lpg=RA2-PA206&dq=%22We+all+accept+the+need+for+some+form+of+socialism+to+enable+our+people+to+catch+up+with+the+advanced%22&source=bl&ots=67XG2f71DK&sig=ACfU3U3ViPIrY7wN-Wp-h_ky-qKPzAlYtA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjA8tHXx_jmAhVGJTQIHdefAfQQ6AEwAnoECAgQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22We%20all%20accept%20the%20need%20for%20some%20form%20of%20socialism%20to%20enable%20our%20people%20to%20catch%20up%20with%20the%20advanced%22&f=false)


South Africa has gone from a country where a small percentage of whites used government force to restrict the freedom of blacks, to a democracy where a majority of blacks, full of an understandable resentment coupled with a huge dose of economic ignorance, attempt to implement socialist policies that redistribute wealth from everybody and inadvertently help destroy the economy and moral fabric of society.

The Black Lives Matter organization which has been taken to almost religious-like reverence by so many well-meaning white people is also understandably an economically ignorant communist organization. Black lives matter founder Patrisse Cullors mentioned that "we're trained Marxists".


These black leaders-intellectuals should not be blamed for the fact that they have inadvertently pushed America in the wrong socioeconomic direction, have helped keep Africa devastatingly poor, and via the ideologically Marxist-Communist Black Lives Matter organization are taking America towards a racial civil war. We want to understand the complex environmental factors that lead to the economic fallacies which then manifest themselves in the more obvious-trivial "identities" of socialists-communists-etc., and place the "blame" on such fallacies instead of blaming the current "identities" of people which can easily change with the proper understanding of economics. These men were courageous individuals with the best of intentions who knew their views would likely have them killed as happened with MLK and Malcom X. We must always be aware of how difficult it can be to overcome economic fallacies and understand freedom. For example, the great free-market black intellectual-economist Prof. Thomas Sowell still considered himself a Marxist even after getting a Masters degree in economics from Columbia University. Sowell writes in his autobiography:

>"The more other government programs I looked into, over the years, the harder I found it to believe that they were a net benefit to society. I had remained a Marxist, despite being at the University of Chicago, but now my experience in Washington began a process of changing my mind completely as to how to deal with social problems. Fortunately, it was a gradual process, so that I was spared the traumatic conversions which some other Marxists have suffered."

African Americans during slavery obviously wanted freedom from bondage and the freedom to compete and keep the fruits of their labor. As they gained such freedom their socioeconomic progress as measured by literacy, marriage rates, income, etc. was quickly catching up to those of whites and was higher in numerous black neighborhoods in Chicago, Atlanta, and many other cities. While under slavery, not only was there the obvious torture-exhaustion associated with it, there was also a system that prevented the proper existence-function of the family, and also contributed to the creation of a character which was in some ways dependent on slavery itself and ill-suited to freedom, self-reliance and competition in the market-place. For example, [Sowell writes](https://www.amazon.com/Ethnic-America-History-Thomas-Sowell/dp/0465020755/ref=sr_1_1?dchild=1&keywords=ethnic+america+sowell&qid=1609301884&sr=8-1):

>“With many generations of discouragement of initiative and with little incentive to work any more than necessary to escape punishment, slaves developed foot-dragging, work-evading patterns that were to remain as a cultural legacy long after slavery itself disappeared. Duplicity and theft were also pervasive patterns among antebellum slaves, and these too remained long after slavery ended.” (Sowell, p. 187)

>… “As workers, blacks had acquired little sense of personal responsibility under slavery. Lack of initiative, evasion of work, half-done work, unpredictable absenteeism, and abuse of tools and equipment were pervasive under slavery, and these patterns did not suddenly disappear with emancipation.” (Sowell, p. 200) 

>…In the decades immediately after emancipation, when blacks first became responsible for their own health, death rates among Negroes rose from what they had been under slavery. But as later generations of blacks became more experienced and acculturated, their death rates declined absolutely, and the large gap between black and white death rates also narrowed. (Sowell, p. 212)

>…“The masses of uncultured, ill-educated, rural southern Negroes who flooded into the northern cities were bitterly resented by blacks and whites alike. The Negro middle class and the northern Negro press denounced them as crude, vulgar, unwashed, rowdy, and criminal and as a menace to the standing of the whole race in the eyes of the larger white community.” (Sowell, p. 211)

As already mentioned, freedom and competition is what has evolved our morals-ethics-culture to be hard-working, tolerant and treat everyone with respect and overcame the aforementioned problems created by slavery. Unfortunately blacks didn't just get increasing freedom, they also got constant 'social engineering'-Socialism from well-intentioned whites which often times did more harm than good. Frederick Douglass' advice below was just as important then as it is today (perhaps even more so today):

>“Everybody has asked the question. . .“What shall we do with the Negro?” I have had but one answer from the beginning. Do nothing with us! Your doing with us has already played the mischief with us. Do nothing with us! If the apples will not remain on the tree of their own strength, if they are wormeaten at the core, if they are early ripe and disposed to fall, let them fall! I am not for tying or fastening them on the tree in any way, except by nature's plan, and if they will not stay there, let them fall. And if the Negro cannot stand on his own legs, let him fall also. All I ask is, give him a chance to stand on his own legs! Let him alone!”

Frederick Douglass also said a few words that carry more wisdom than anything coming out of the mouths of all American psychiatrists combined: *“Men are so constituted that they derive their conviction of their own possibilities largely from the estimate formed of them by others.”*  During slavery, long after, and probably still to this very day, some black people must have felt that they in fact were inferior to whites. This was just inevitable-understandable given that all the technology, the ability to read-write and just about everything that was much more advanced compared to what blacks had achieved was associated with white people. And of course, the "experts" and "the science" of the day had all sorts of explanations as to why blacks were inferior and needed whites to make them more productive-civilized. For example in 1851, American physician Samuel A. Cartwright hypothesized that a mental illness he called *Drapetomania* caused slaves to flee captivity. Believe it or not, sometimes the established "science"-Faucis can be wrong.

Given the deteriorating racial and economic situation brought about by economic ignorance, the public is looking for answers, unfortunately they are understandably drawn to the same simplistic fallacies which again we can summarize as "Capitalism is the racist white man's tool to enrich himself at the expense of women and minorities" For example, books like Robin DiAngelo's "White Fragility" are spreading the usual simplistic "identity"-based and anti-capitalist and thus anti-freedom and pro-coercion fallacies. For example, she writes:

>"...the US economy was based on the abduction and enslavement of African people, the displacement and genocide of indigenous people, and the annexation of Mexican lands"(p. 15-16)

Wrong. Those things certainly occurred, but they were NOT the "base" or most important factors leading to the rising standard of living Americans, and the entire planet, would enjoy as US-made discoveries and innovations spread globally. The US economy was "based" on Capitalism(albeit a very imperfect one of course), on a relatively strong respect for private property and the emergent competitive knowledge discovery and superior social order it leads to, as well as the "identity" of the fellow slightly smarter apes that best reflects the TRUTH, that regarding the things that really matter all human beings are equal slightly smarter apes regardless of the cultural-tribalistic baggage we have inherited from by-gone centuries. 

Unfortunately DiAngelo and the well-intentioned people who always fall for some coercive-monopoly central plan have transformed blacks from rapidly-progressing free-market competitors to being largely dependent on unproductive-damaging government jobs, thus their wealth, is increasingly that which is coerced from others. 

Patrick J. Buchanan summarizes in an article titled [“Obama's Race-Based Spoils System”](https://www.lewrockwell.com/2011/08/patrick-j-buchanan/is-it-a-racial-spoils-system/) 8/29/2011

>“Though only 12 percent to 13 percent of the U.S. population, blacks hold 18 percent of all federal jobs. African-Americans are 25 percent of the employees at Treasury and Veterans Affairs, 31 percent of State Department employees, 37 percent of the Department of Education, 38 percent of Housing and Urban Development. They are 42 percent of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., 55 percent of the Government Printing Office, 82 percent of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency.

>According to The Washington Post, blacks hold 44 percent of the jobs at Fannie Mae and 50 percent of the jobs at Freddie Mac.” 

African American economist Walter E. Williams writes in his aptly titled article “Does Political Power Mean Economic Power?”:

>“While black politicians have preached that political power is a means to gain economic power, whether it has done so is a testable proposition. We only have to examine the socioeconomic status of black Americans in cities where blacks hold considerable political power, cities such as Washington, D.C., Newark, Philadelphia, Detroit, Cleveland, Memphis and others. What we'll find in those cities are grossly inferior education, welfare dependency for much of the population, unsafe neighborhoods and citizens, both black and white, who can't wait for the first opportunity to get out.”

DiAngelo's book and views which are the nearly inevitable result of the economic ignorance of your average mainstream intellectual reminds me of perhaps today's most famous biologist and evolutionary thinker, Richard Dawkins, and the very first paragraph in the first chapter (titled 'Why are People?') of his seminal book "The Selfish Gene" which we quote in its entirety:

>"Intelligent life on a planet comes of age when it first works out the reason for its own existence. If superior creatures from space ever visit earth, the first question they will ask, in order to assess the level of our civilization, is: 'Have they discovered evolution yet?' Living organisms had existed on earth, without ever knowing why, for over three thousand million years before the truth finally dawned on one of them. His name was Charles Darwin. To be fair, others had had inklings of the truth, but it was Darwin who first put together a coherent and tenable account of why we exist. Darwin made it possible for us to give a sensible answer to the curious child whose question heads this chapter. We no longer have to resort to superstition when faced with the deep problems: Is there a meaning to life? What are we for? What is man? After posing the last of these questions, the eminent zoologist G. G. Simpson put it thus: 'The point I want to make now is that all attempts to answer that question before 1859 are worthless and that we will be better off if [we ignore them completely.'"](http://classes.kvcc.edu/jcorbin/PHI106/Darwin%20Articles/WhyArePeople.htm)


Point? A "social scientist" who has 0 understanding of how the real social order works and has co-evolved with our culture-ideologies-"identities", in other words, someone who has no familiarity with the great economists and social thinkers of the so-called "Austrian School" like Ludwig von Mises and his numerous intellectual heirs like his great protégé 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics F.A. Hayek, Thomas Sowell, and more... Again, as G.G. Simpson put it "...are worthless and that we will be better off if we ignore them completely." after properly debating their ideas and persuading the mainstream of course. 

Thus Mises:

>"History speaks only to those people who know how to interpret it on the ground of correct theories."

Which explains the above-mainstream erroneous Marxist way of looking at history as separate classes and now "identities" in some struggle and the usual "Capitalism is the white man's tool to oppress thus we must have coercive-competition-less 'experts' run the world" nonsense.
