

### From sub-human negro to the nigga so many want to emulate and “player hate”.


Today’s popularity and confidence of black men and hip-hop culture is a great example of how the ever-changing pages in our cultural books play a key role in defining how we see things. Over time, the associations made with black men inevitably changed, especially as they became pioneers in everything that is “fun”, and by today, if blacks have a more seeming resemblance to apes, it just means that they make the apes look good, probably better than some “white boys”. A hundred years ago the last thing black people wanted, was to be mentioned in the same sentence with apes, but today there is a popular hip-hop oriented brand name of clothing, BAPE(A Bathing Ape), which uses an ape for its logo and is worn by many African Americans and endorsed by such Hip-Hop stars like Jay-Z and Lil Wayne. Let’s briefly go over how this transformation has occurred.
 
At the heart of the black-white racial tensions lies a sort of inadvertent sexual competition to a slight degree whose roots can be traced back to even before Africans were brought over to America. Historian Peter W. Bardaglio writes:

>“English settlers who came to America brought with them notions about African sexuality that influenced colonial policies concerning miscegenation. It was widely held, for instance, that black women were extraordinarily passionate and had virtually no self-restraint; they were “hot constitution’d Ladies” who possessed a “temper hot and lascivious,” one Englishman reported. Black males also were associated with a “beastly” sexuality, and European travelers to Africa commented often on the “extraordinary greatness” of the men’s “members” as confirmation of their exceptional virility. These perceptions regarding the supposedly uncivilized nature of African sexuality helped to legitimize the legal control of interracial sexual encounters in America.” (Bardaglio, p. 50)  

 

The perceived inferiority and relative cultural/tribal backwardness of blacks served as the ideological foundation needed to justify their enslavement. As long as blacks were associated with an inferior race, whatever advantages in terms of strength or other qualities they might possess posed no threat, but when white women chose to be with black men, this not only helped shattered this ideology, but quite naturally struck fear in the hearts of many white men. Various laws were obviously needed to enforce slavery for economic reasons, but the potential sexual competition also played a tremendously important role in shaping life in the South as can be seen by the various laws established to prevent interracial sex, especially sexual relations between white women and black men. Bardaglio writes:

>“The Maryland and Virginia assemblies led the way in legislating against miscegenation, beginning in the 1660s. Maryland at first punished only interracial marriage, and Virginia only interracial fornication, but by the end of the seventeenth century the two colonies penalized both acts. From the beginning antimiscegenation legislation in Maryland manifested an intense concern with controlling the sexual behavior of white women. In 1664, for example, the legislature enacted a law that denounced “diverse freeborne Englishwomen [who were] forgetful of their free Condition and to the disgrace of our Nation doe intermarry with Negro slaves.” To discourage “such shamefull Matches,” the statute stipulated that any white woman who married a black slave was to serve her husband’s master until the slave died. The offspring of these interracial marriages were to “be slaves as their fathers were,”…” (Bardaglio, pp. 51-52)

 

Historian Winthrop D. Jordan writes that:

>“Attitudes toward the Negro male were more complex and potentially far more explosive. The notion that Negro men were particularly virile, promiscuous, and lusty was of course not new in the eighteenth century, but the English colonists in America showed signs of adding a half-conscious and revealing specific corollary: they sometimes suggested that Negro men lusted after white women” (Jordan, p. 151)

and:

>“A Maryland act of 1681 described marriages of white women with Negros as, among other things, “always to the Satisfaccion of theire Lascivious and Lustfull desires, and to the disgrace not only of the English butt also of many other Christian Nations.””

 
When black boxer Jack Johnson was beating up “great white hope”s  on his way to becoming the first black heavy-weight boxing champion of the world in 1908, the white world was very worried and with good reason. Given the way our minds work, where associations of characteristics/traits and their level of success-failure are very important, whites obviously did not want black men to get the confidence that comes from knowing that their characteristics-‘blood’ were associated with superiority at something as instinctively desirable and important for men as superior fighting abilit-toughness. Intuitively we know that when someone has an advantage, they are likely to show it off and use it to make the most of it. It inevitably affects our confidence and provides an advantage that one is somewhat inclined to take advantage of. Especially when you have been treated as inferior like blacks had been.

When someone of your race-population is bigger or stronger or better at something, it is not as big a deal as when it is someone from a different race-population. Having children is a bit like a crapshoot, ugly people often times have beautiful children, and beautiful people often times have ugly kids and so on, and because of this, a slight advantage by members of the same race in any trait is not that important. The superior trait being examined is only possessed by a relatively few members of your group and since human beings have for most of our evolution lived in tribes, where there was little genetic difference between members, such changes amongst people are more the result of chance. Let me put it this way, in a small tribe everyone is playing with the same cards(sentences-genes), sometimes some people have a great hand, they are more beautiful or athletic than others because the cards came out that way, but when they reshuffle their cards with another to mate and have children, the straight-“three of a kind”-“full house”, which led to an exceptional person in the past might now be broken to lead to ‘an average or below average hand’-‘human being’. But if the qualities that are associated with superiority are associated with someone from a different race, then you will never have this quality in your lineage, it is as if they have a card that can always beat yours, and whatever race you belong to, it is now associated-stereotyped with whatever trait is being considered. It is great if the trait is something desirable; a disadvantage if it is not and thus eventually entire populations-races are stereotyped.

Riots broke out when Jack Johnson became world champion. Jack Johnson was in many ways the white man’s worst nightmare. Not only did he humiliate his “great white hope” opponents, he flaunted his taste in white women and was the main reason behind many racially motivated laws during the time. Soon after marrying his second wife, Lucille Cameron, an 18 year old white prostitute, the government finally got him for violating the Mann Act, a law which prohibited the transportation of women for “immoral purposes” across state lines, and had been motivated by these kind of racial tensions that Jack was stirring up. Jack skipped bail and lived overseas for several years before finally turning himself in. If one had a time machine which could be used to bring back a feverishly racist white man from Jack Johnson’s time, and be shown what things are like in growing America, he would not have been surprised. Some of what we are seeing today is what fueled his racism; he intuitively knew that associations between success and characteristics which he did not possess, or possessed to a lesser degree would eventually lead to a large stereotype which is exactly what has slowly happened in America.


Blacks were slightly ahead in terms of athleticism but what remained of their African cultural influence also put them ahead in terms of a sort of more “fun” culture. Their African cultural norms did not have the many rules that restricted our more carnal instincts, they were not exactly ‘Victorian England’-type morals which might have played a key role in building civilization at the time and helped carry Europeans to dominance. Some of these elements were kept alive in their culture and music. These cultural elements roughed up and livened up classical music instruments and led to ragtime and Jazz, which amongst other influences led to Rock and Roll and so on. At the core of much of the life, energy, and bravado that various musical genres that have evolved from African American influence, I believe that one can find this relative physical superiority being a subconscious motivator(I know these are rather vague and abstract words). There is an additional action, or swagger, or liveliness to the contribution of African Americans to music. They did not take classical music and slow it down or made it more serene, they gave more movement, more action, they transformed it in a way that better suited a more raw or primal humanity.


Racism was strong not just between blacks and whites but between blacks and mulattos, or the lighter skinned blacks, who had an easier time absorbing or fitting in with the white aristocracy-culture most felt was superior. According to Sowell:

>“The folk culture of the black masses—spirituals, jazz, dialect—was rejected by the elite in favor of the more aristocratic elements of white American culture. Color differences within Negro population became social barriers, erected by many of the same people who first led the NAACP’s fight against color barriers erected by whites. This apparent inconsistency was, however, quite consistent when seen as an attempt by the Negro elite to join the larger American elite from which it was excluded solely because of race. But the moral and political claims that might enable them to do so had to rest on democratic rhetoric and on their role as spokesmen for the whole race. ” (Sowell, p. 206)

Given that blacks are better athletes, and for socioeconomic factors already briefly discussed, it makes perfect sense that this would lead to an increased advantage when it came to using violence towards those that might be smaller and for those who are smaller to instinctively be weary of the tougher people. There was a time when New York City had Italian, Jewish, and Black ghettoes, but blacks, being the physically superior ones as well as the ones with less to lose, naturally rose to be the kings of the ghettos. Norman Podhoretz, a Jewish man who is one of the top so called Neoconservatives during the Bush Jr. Presidency, discusses his experiences while growing up in a Jewish ghetto in this multi-ethnic NYC during WWII(1939-45):

>“To me, at the age of twelve, it seemed very clear that Negroes were better off than Jews—indeed, than all whites. A city boy’s world is contained within three or four square blocks, and in my world it was the whites, the Italians and the Jews, who feared the Negroes, not the other way around. The Negroes were tougher than we were, more ruthless, and on the whole they were better athletes.”


Let’s face it, for most of our evolution if you were bigger or had an advantage you took it, if you were the smaller guy you owe your life to the fact you feared and played it extra carefully when dealing with the bigger guy. During our millions of years of evolution we have played both cards all the time. This is why all men, regardless of their size or ethnicity can both be chickens and scared, and dominant and brutal, we just play our cards when it suits us.

It is common for one to hear things like blacks-Hispanics-whites-Asians are this way or that way which is nonsense. If it seems like people are beginning to pigeonhole themselves into certain stereotypical behaviors it is because that is a new emergent pattern that we are settling into as we deal with each other. All human beings have spent too much evolutionary history together, in other words, our genetics is too similar for any significant differences to cause the behavioral differences we often times use when we stereotype populations-races. As it is in the United States, Asians, given their smaller stature compared to whites and blacks, are more likely to be pigeonholed as the smart nerds, but there was nothing nerdy about the Mongol empire raping and looting during the 13th and 14th centuries as it conquered the largest continuous piece of land mankind has ever done. Here I am referring to behavioral differences, not physical, because obviously those do exist. 

Let’s fast forward and get to the recent evolution and development of Hip-Hop. Hip-Hop, whatever its exact roots might be, has mostly evolved from black inner-city ghettoes. When one looks at its evolution, it is easy to look at the early artists and attribute to them the creation of this movement but it is not so much the individuals who created the movement, it was a complicated mixture of socioeconomic factors and history which led to the environment and “lemons” which eventually found themselves in various artists’ minds and led to the Hip-Hop “lemonade”.

There is probably no tougher environment in America than black ghettos. At a certain level we might rationalize that guns and gangs are counterproductive to society, but at a more instinctive level being successful in this world is very appealing to our manly instincts and a great source of confidence and pride. The man who reaches the top and survives in this tribal world, where the law and cultural norms which have also evolved to check the power of the strong for the benefit of the weak and the larger social order are lacking, gains a great sense of confidence. As rapper Busta Rhymes tells us in his song “In The Ghetto”:

>“That’s where I … Get my instincts and survival tactics

>Ain’t nuttin like the hood nigga, I don’t care

>You surviving in the ghetto you can make it anywhere”

The source of confidence and pride that comes with being tough enough to survive in the ghetto helps with the ladies as well. A once popular song titled “Soldier” by group “Destiny’s Child” provides a good example:

>“If his status ain’t hood

>I ain’t checkin for him

>Betta be street if he lookin’ at me”

 
In any environment the people who emulated are the ones that excel and survive in it, their mannerisms and gestures are the ones that are mimicked by the young minds around. This is sort of obvious; rapper Ice-T’s video for his rap classic “Hustler” comes to mind. The video begins with three young black kids bouncing a basketball around. One says he wants to be a pilot when he grows up, the other says he wants to be like Michael Jordan, but the third says “I want to be like them across the street” pointing to Ice-T and his gangsters.

Inner city ghettoes are tough, but jails can be tougher, they offer an even more concentrated environment of people who are more likely to use violence to get their way. It gets even closer to “survival of the fittest” and the fittest members to survive in this environment are blacks and statistics on things like prison rape provide good evidence of this. As reported by Human Rights Watch(hrw.org):

>“Overall, our correspondence and interviews with white, black, and Hispanic inmates convince us that white inmates are disproportionately targeted for abuse. Although many whites reported being raped by white inmates, black on white abuse appears to be more common… Some inmates, both black and white, told Human Rights Watch that whites were generally perceived as weaker and thus more vulnerable to sexual abuse. An African American prisoner, describing the situation of incarcerated whites, said:

>>When individuals come to prison, they know that the first thing that they will have to do is fight. Now there are individuals that are from a certain race that the majority of them are not physically equip to fight. So they are the majority that are forced to engage in sexual acts.”

So again, more evidence of superior toughness, which leads to more attention grabbing/spreading swagger.

Black ghettos might have been the most important breeding ground for Hip-Hop; but: what created the ghettos and the tribal-gang-crime ridden environment which selected for such toughness-machismo and the culture it led to? Various economic policies and the incentives they inevitably create; economic policies created by the stupid white men who probably hate Hip-Hop the most, white congressmen. Actually, black political leaders too as we have already discussed. The most important culprits are, once again, the so called ‘War on Drugs’, minimum wage legislation, various welfare schemes and a whole lot more. Yet again, minimum wage laws essentially dictate that if you cannot help someone-employer produce wealth at a rate greater than the minimum wage then no one will find it in their best interest to hire you, it would be a criminal act. According to Washington Post columnist Frank Ahrens, black teenage unemployment for November 2009 was a whopping 49.4%, so basically half of the black teenage population cannot find a job. And this is a national average; some cities have even larger black teenage unemployment. If there was no minimum wage legislation, as well as no legislation preventing teenagers from working, teens or high school dropouts would be able to integrate themselves into the labor force and make much better use of their time in terms of learning useful skills and more importantly, shaping a productive and self-reliant attitude, which is basically all that is needed to succeed. This would make the dismal state of America’s public education system that much more obvious and help lead to its abolishment, but the combination of high minimum wage and laws restricting teenage employment keep teens, especially black teens, in an unproductive and risky path while gaining little in terms of productive knowledge/habits.

If you can’t find a legal job because of the aforementioned reasons, thanks to the artificially high price of drugs you have much more incentive to go into the drug business or committing theft and other real crimes. Eventually they get busted and go to jail where instead of having their character be molded by the market process and its productive-cooperative incentives, it is molded by a tribal environment that selects for toughness-machismo and other traits that do not lead to increased production in the free world. Now with a criminal record and little in terms of valuable productive experience it gets even harder to find employment making the world of drug dealing and criminal activity that much more appealing given the available options, thus leading to a cycle of law-breaking and prison-parole that is very hard to break and traps millions of blacks.

Next let’s add the effect of the various welfare schemes. Due to both biological factors and cultural ones, women are more suited to childrearing which makes the man have a better role as the “breadwinner”. The various welfare programs inadvertently reduce the value of a hardworking man and the morals-values which help create one. If a teenage girl with a single child had to fully deal with the consequences and expenses of raising a child she would be far more selective of the type of man she had sex with, one who could provide for a child, which means one who has the values and productive morals needed to get and keep a job and stay out of trouble. But with the government providing this financial function, it makes it a lot easier to fall for the football-‘basketball star’-‘tough guy’ while he is young and so on. This also puts more pressure on men to be more like the athletes-ballers-etc. in order to score with the ladies as well.

There are also the more obvious economic incentives associated with welfare. People who can get by with welfare have little incentive to get off it. Some people might be brainwashed with this whole bullshit about it being immoral if you don’t really need it, but most people are too smart, especially if you are from the hood, to fall for such silly brainwashing. Let’s say you are getting $1,000 per month in various aids because you don’t have a job or whatever. If you get a job that pays say $1,500 per month but lose your aid you are really just working the whole month for an increase of $500 while you could get $1,000 for doing nothing. I know plenty of professionals who have lost their jobs and are milking unemployment/welfare as much as they can.

With the rise of various welfare schemes and the war on drugs the black family began to break apart. In 1940, a time when there was far more racism and legal barriers for blacks, less than 15% of black children were born to unwed mothers, by today over 70% of black children are born to unwed mothers. Not having a male figure who can better discipline a young male is yet another factor that helps spread the tribal-tough-nigger attitude which gets so many young blacks into trouble. The tribal-tough-nigger attitude is also incompatible with modern fatherhood, part of being the alpha male is doing very well with the ladies, the more the better. This might appeal to our manly instincts but helps spread various socioeconomic problems.

Then there is, again, black’s superiority and utter dominance in sports. Little needs to be said here; black athletes dominate basketball, football, golf with Tiger Woods( at least for a long time before his recent marital troubles ). In female tennis, with the exception of a few admirable adversaries, the Williams sisters have dominated the sport during the last decade. The athletic superiority in sports naturally marries itself with Hip-Hop culture. The Hip-Hop lingo is intertwined with references to sports. Popular phrases like being a “player” and having “game” are perfect examples. The culture of sports does teach some good-productive morals at times. Fans of the NBA and NFL are constantly reminded of how it is all about business and competing, we see players make lots of money when they are good, we see coaches get fired, we see trades. Yet this pales in comparison to the socioeconomic damage that this does to most people who will never make it to pro sports and spend their lives excelling at something that has little market value. Your average athlete, even the very good ones who get scholarships, get useless watered-down degrees which makes the whole college experience a waste of time and adds more people to the millions of “educated” Americans who can’t find jobs, people who then cry for more government help to solve problems thus taking society one step closer to Socialism and the situation we currently find ourselves in.

Thus far we’ve gone over some of the factors involved in creating the sort of swagger-machismo attitude that is at the core of Hip-Hop but how did this culture come to become mainstream? How is it that rappers who grew up in ghettoes became the symbols of what is cool? One of the things that helped was public education. Public education became the main medium where this transformation occurred. Public schools are where most Americans send their kids and parents have little control as to what sort of culture is promoted or tolerated in such schools. There was a time when it was very easy to expel a troublemaking student, or one whose attitude-morals or whatever the case might be went counter to whatever ambiance-culture parents wanted to have in the environment where their children went. But this is nearly impossible to do in public schools. Root causes like the aforementioned high minimum wage laws and regulations that make employment of the less-skilled more expensive, the drug war, and the various welfare schemes are like a continuous flame that burns the black community as well as all Americans in general causing all sorts of side-effects. The increasing dominance of black athletes also played a role. Another and more obvious crucial factor is the fact that rappers and hip-hop musicians created great music about topics that are very appealing like sex, power, etc.

