


### Hip-Hop’s capitalist mindset and tolerance of human nature.


The ‘nigga’ mindset and many of its cultural elements is one that has spread to millions of Americans and people all over the world to various degrees as Hip-Hop culture spreads. One of the great benefits of rap/Hip-Hop culture and the spreading of the ‘nigga’ mindset is the strong sense of individualism it carries. Rap/Hip-Hop is very much about the individual, about individual greatness and success, about the individual/rapper having “game” and succeeding, competing, outperforming others, and standing up for himself. Whether it be Ludacris singing about having “hoes in different area codes” or LL Cool J about how “I’m gonna knock you out”, the sort of primal confidence that comes from succeeding in the ghetto and womanizing fills the mind that absorbs Rap/Hip-Hop with a certain sense of confidence which is one of the reasons why it is so appealing to minds everywhere. This strong sense of individualism inevitably helps shape a mindset that is very susceptible to Capitalism/Libertarianism and I believe has been inadvertently preparing minds everywhere for the pro-Capitalism/freedom revolution we are currently, or very soon about to experience. Hip-hop is a crucial element in helping spread pro-freedom protests via the Internet across the Middle East in early 2011[245].  You simply cannot absorb the confident ‘nigga’ mindset and at the same time believe or act like you are not on equal footing with others, or be tolerant of a government or any entity messing around with your property or freedom. At its core, Rap/Hip-Hop is very libertarian. This does not mean that Rap/Hip-Hop stars consciously preach Capitalism which one might expect if what I just said were true, because as far as I can tell right now that is not the case. Actually, popular acts like the Black Eyed Peas show hints of communism by having one of the lead singers, Will.i.am, wear a red shirt with the letters CCCP(letters used to represent the former communist Soviet Union) prominently displayed[36]. I believe this happens because economic ignorance is currently too powerful to allow the pro-freedom/individualism attitude in Rap/Hip-Hop to really push the culture in a more conscious pro-Capitalism direction. The Hip-Hop world is still too influenced by the aforementioned reasons as to why the black community is particularly susceptible to Socialism… But this can change in a heartbeat. And once a few rappers or stars like Lady Gaga start rapping/singing and dissing the economorons at the Federal Reserve, the revolution will really transform America in a matter of months.

Another great benefit of the spread of Hip-Hop culture is its tolerance of human nature. When you grow up listening to rap/Hip-Hop you quickly become accustomed to the potential of men to be dogs, women to be bitches and a whole lot more. Take for example the following lyrics from Hip-Hop pioneers ‘2 Live Crew’ in their song “Pop That Coochie”:

>“I like the way you lick the champagne glass

>It makes me wanna stick my dick in your ass

>So come on, baby, and pop it quick

>I fall in love when you suck my dick”

If you grew up listening to Hip-Hop these are just the lyrics to a song about fantasizing about being all powerful to the point where beautiful women can fulfill whatever desire enters your mind, and is not a song created by “evil perverts” which perhaps someone who did not grow up to absorb Hip-Hop might think.  I believe that a culture that accepts human nature for what it is and then works to deal with it is preferable to a culture that simply labels people as good-evil-sinners. And in this sense Hip-Hop radiates a truth about human nature which spills into other areas. If we think about different musical genres; which is the one we associate the most with being more honest or in other words, “keeping it real”? I think Hip-Hop would come to mind more than others. I think that in some ways, the confidence black men have for reasons already discussed has helped them express themselves in Hip-Hop and thus give it that “keeping it real” aura. A cocky mindset which evolved due to the toughness of blacks and their dominance of ghettoes and sports, as well as a righteous indignation over mistreatment, is spreading to non-black minds and filling them with the same sense of confidence and individualism. If you want to say something and be taken seriously these days, one can see why having a black guy who has absorbed the Hip-Hop “keeping it real” mannerisms is a very persuasive way of spreading a message which is obviously one of the reasons why Hip-Hop stars and music play such an increasing role in commercials.

I have to conclude this small section by mentioning the important role that music and rock and roll and thus African Americans played in helping bring down Communism. Thaddeus Russell describes this process beautifully in the 13th chapter titled “How Juvenile Delinquents Won the Cold War” of his highly recommended book “A Renegade History of the United States”. The contagious sounds of Motown, The Beatles, and  rock and roll in general were inevitably reaching the millions of youth trapped in Communist regimes all over Europe. Russell writes that:

>“In 1946 Stalin’s chief aide Andrei Zhdanov warned that jazz would “poison the consciousness of the masses,” the Central Committee of the Communist Party ordered all state orchestras to stop playing the music. Also banned were saxophones, wah-wah trumpet mutes, the plucking of bass strings, the deliberate lowering of tones to create “blue notes,” and the playing of drums with too much rhythm. Brigades of music patrols monitored theaters and dance halls to ensure that nothing jazzy was being played. Couples caught dancing anything other than the waltz, the polka, or Russian folk dances were subject to arrest. Members of jazz bands were rounded up and sent to Siberian prisons or exiled to remote cities, where they were supposed to undergo “rehabilitation””. (Russell, p. 285)

Youth living under communist censorship became increasingly troublesome and defiant of the authorities. They might not have had the fortune of reading the works of Ludwig von Mises or F.A.Hayek and make a big fuzz about economic freedom, but they certainly felt the desire for cultural freedom and to behave like the apes that we are. More by Russell:

>“Though they avoided the explicit racism of their capitalist rivals, Communist authorities clearly understood the source of the corruption. A Bulgarian newspaper called the young rockers “arrogant monkeys, dropped into our midst as if from a foreign zoo.” Soviet cultural magazines referred to jazz and rock as “mud music” produced by an “ape culture.” East German Communists more frankly dismissed it as “Negermusik.””… By the late 1970s, desire for music frequently turned to hatred for the Communist regime. Riots broke out at several concerts, where targets were usually authorities who attempted to stop the performances. Then disco swept the Soviet Block…Polls of Soviet youth showed that they had far greater knowledge of rock stars than of Marx, Lenin, or Stalin. When the Berlin Wall came down in 1989, East Germans flooded West Berlin record shops.” (Russell, p. 292)

