


### The “n” word.


Rap-Hip-Hop and black culture as well as American culture in general just wouldn’t be the same without this word and its sort of evolution reveals other important aspects of human nature.  To understand the important role of this highly controversial word we have to answer a bigger question, why do we like to say and pepper our speech with “bad words”? The answer to this question might be related to our desire to show off and seek attention. If for whatever reason you have power one way to show off your power is just to break the rules. We know that social rules are there to more or less curb selfish actions and help maintain an egalitarian order, and it is in our immediate best interest to break these rules if we can get away with it. If you can break the rules and get away with it you have power. Altering words by pronouncing them differently or modifying them in other ways can also have its roots in the same attention-showing off kind of way but it is also yet another way in which we identify with groups.

Men want to be bad, we would love to have the power to push other guys around and have all the girls to ourselves and it is very common to have sayings like “I’m a badass” to represent positive qualities. This type of transformation is the same one that has occurred to the word nigger. At one point it was used to describe black people with a subhuman connotation but my guess is that the word’s meaning and application changed from applying to say a lazy or ignorant nigger to a nigger who is lazy and ignorant because he can afford to be one for whatever reason. Again, what has just been discussed with respect to Chris Rock’s performance comes to mind. Some black people “take offense” to white’s usage of nigga-nigger but this is often times used as a way to bully whites and find an excuse to exert power over them. White people use it for the very same reasons blacks do, the word is an integral part of the current cultural symbolism. Hip-Hop culture is, well, cultural and not genetic, although it has grown out of black ghettoes and most associate it with blacks, it can be just as easily absorbed by minds controlling bodies with different skin tones. I am reminded of a time I visited Nashville, Tennessee and went to a nightclub there. Some country music was playing when I got inside but when a hip-hop song came up I remember this white guy, with cowboy boots and hat and all, who made a seamless transition to hip-hop dancing and had every mannerism and gesture down. Again, Hip-Hop is a cultural book, one that can be absorbed by any mind regardless of race, it is true that for various reasons it is more difficult to find non-blacks who have assimilated it well but obviously these people abound. One of the most famous rappers is the blue-eyed fellow Miami Cuban who happens to have gone to the same high school I went to, Pitbull(Armando Christian Pérez). The colorlessness of Hip-Hop culture as well as the word “nigga” was described by long time Hip-Hop performer-activist KRS-One who on April 29th, 2007 while talking to Fox News commentator Sean Hannity said:

>“In hip-Hop it doesn’t matter, we don’t see race or ethnicity or any of that for the most part. That’s why everybody is basically a nigga”

Many blacks also refer to their white friends or anyone else depending on the context as niggas, once again showing that the word is just part of the culture and only people who have a special axe to grind use it to bring up whatever resentments or concerns they have. Others like black leader Jessie Jackson have gone on small crusades trying to prevent the word from being used by both whites or blacks because they believe that somehow the usage of the word has to do with creating a bad self-image and who knows what other psychobabble that supposedly harms the black community. But this is obviously nonsense, a word and whatever meaning it carries, which for the most part can be translated to dude-friend-dummy-etc. depending on context, has little impact on what really causes the socioeconomic problems African Americans are facing, those causes being the economically ignorant socialist policies both blacks and whites help bring about.

