
### Slavery.


Slavery has been the norm not the exception for a good chunk of our recent evolution. The ancient Sumerians, Babylonians, Egyptians, Assyrians, Greeks and Romans all used slavery. “The ancient Chinese used both domestic and imported slaves and customarily buried them alive with their deceased masters” (D'Souza, p. 38). If you can enslave others and get away with it in a way that increases the strength of your social order then your social order will survive and carry within it the cultural values associated with slavery. First we enslaved others like us, but as our ability to travel further increased we also enslaved those that were different from us. Much of the world was an orgy of slavery until the “white man”, due mostly to the evolution of his religious values, i.e. Christianity, eventually put an end to it in Europe and then forced-enlightened the rest of the world to be as civilized. The single sentence story about the slavery of blacks, which unfortunately is held by too large an amount of people goes something like this: The more technologically advanced whites, brought over blacks and enslaved them therefore “the white man” is evil. Ok, so maybe I’m exaggerating here a little but not by much, but let’s go over the story one more time.

For various reasons which had nothing to do with their biological ability to do so, African blacks did not develop more advanced civilizations and were easy prey to the Arabs which became the first mass enslavers of blacks by the 8th century. As African American economist and historian Thomas Sowell tells us:

>“Arab slave traders penetrated down into the center of Africa and in the East coast as far south as Mozambique. In cooperation with local tribes, they captured or purchased slaves to take back with them across the Sahara desert, which eventually became strewn with the skeletons of Negroes who died on the long march across the burning sands. The Arabs were notable as the most cruel of all slave masters. As late as the nineteenth century, British explorer David Livingstone had nightmares for weeks after witnessing the treatment of slaves by Arabs. Slavery was not completely abolished in the Arab world until after the middle of the twentieth century.” (Sowell, 1981, p. 185)

As bad as slavery was, for some blacks in some ways it was a better experience than that of many “freer” Europeans. Sowell continues:

>“In narrowly material terms, slaves in the United States were usually amply fed with low-quality food, and their housing – although primitive by today’s standards—was comparable to(or better than) that of contemporary European peasants or workers. The average life-span of nineteenth-century American slaves was slightly below that of whites in the United States, but the same as the lifespan in Holland and France and greater than that in Italy or Austria. Slaves in the United States lived an average of thirty-six years; peasants in Ireland, nineteen years. To the slave owner, slaves were an investment, and one to be safeguarded. For example, slave owners typically hired white workers –typically Irish immigrants—to do work considered too dangerous for slaves.” (Sowell, 1981, p. 186)

 
So why was the “white man” so evil? How could the strong Christianity of the times and the ideology of “all men are created equal” coexist with such cruelty? Does this really need explaining? It was an outcome of the current state of the “cultural books” or software or ideologies at the time coupled with the various economic incentives that made slavery profitable. It should also be noted that most slaves brought over to America were not snatched from Africa by Europeans, they were sold to Europeans by fellow Africans.

It is important to also realize that the more technologically advanced Europeans often times believed that they were doing good by “civilizing” people who they saw as savages, living more like wild animals than human beings, without proper clothing and no knowledge of Christianity. From European’s perspective, they were obviously more advanced and superior and they attributed this superiority to the way they looked, to their race. Europeans at the time had no clue that what had made them the more powerful civilization was a process of cultural evolution that had little to do with whatever slight genetic differences exist between Europeans and the rest of the world. Their prosperity was created by a more advanced legal and financial framework, by the market process and so on. To this day the “white man” is still utterly clueless of this crucial fact! Some think God has “blessed” America. Others, drowning in the usual economic ignorance, inevitably believe that it is people that matter and therefore point to the perceived greatness of US presidents and the many government bureaucracies they created completely overlooking the socioeconomic forces that like a wave carried the Europeans to relative greatness.

When African slaves were being brought to the new world, for many people they were simply not considered full human beings on equal footing with whites. As economist Robert Higgs writes:

>“Black slavery, so the story went, was a “positive good” because the blacks were inherently inferior. The whites stood in the position of “natural” superiors. But they recognized an obligation to the blacks like that of a parent toward a child, an obligation to protect and care for the simple needs of a simple people. They recognized, too, that the black could offer useful services in return, generally the performance of arduous field labor in the production of the Southern staple crops. With whites and blacks occupying their preordained social and economic spheres, society would not only be prosperous but happy, for everyone would recognize and fill his proper “place”. Finding biblical, even “scientific,” support for these beliefs was not difficult for people committed to them in any event.

>After the Civil War, DeBow’s Review, a leading organ of Southern opinion, opened its pages to a proslavery theorist, George Fitzhugh, who expounded the philosophy of race relations most widely accepted in the South:

>>“We should treat them [the blacks] as mere grown-up children, entitled like children, or apprentices, to the protection of guardians or masters, and bound to obey those put above them, in place of parents, just as children are so bound. Little legal regulation is needed to induce white men to work. But a great deal of severe legislation will be required to compel negroes to labor as much as they should, in order not to become a charge upon the whites. We must have a black code… Mere law cannot sufficiently govern negroes… They need masters of some sort, as well to protect as to govern them. And masters they will have, or soon perish and disappear from the face of the earth.[214]

And again:

>>Nature never intended, and never will permit the races to live together, except as masters and slaves, so that the superior race, commanding the labor of the inferior race, shall at the same time be compelled to provide for, and take care of that race. We do not mean by slavery such as that which has been recently abolished, but some form of subordination of the inferior race that shall compel them to labor, whilst it protects their rights and provides for their wants.

 

>Evidently white Southerners intended to preserve the privileged position of their race regardless of the emancipation.” (Higgs, 1980, p. 7)

—End of Higgs’ quote

 
As if things weren’t bad enough for blacks, Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution (and more importantly, its misunderstandings) coupled with blacks’ unfortunate greater resemblance to apes than whites, made it even more “obvious” to many, especially those who had the most to gain from the exploitation of blacks, that blacks were somehow inferior and further down in the evolutionary ladder and therefore incapable of self-rule and socioeconomic prosperity.
