


### White women and beauty standards.
 

Just like black men and slave culture has played a tremendous role in defining modern culture in terms of what is “cool” and “fun” so have white women in terms of female beauty. White/European women seem to be seen as more attractive in general, and perhaps blue-eyed blondes might be at the top. How this happened I don’t know. The fact that the market process took off in Europe and carried white people to world dominance and thus carried themselves with a certain aura of confidence and superiority might be a factor but perhaps there is something more “biological” that can explain this preference and there are some theories to support this. Even if there were some biological factors giving white women an edge in beauty this would still be a minor factor compared to the role that culture plays in shaping our ideas of beauty. Nude paintings from the 1600s and 1700s showed heavier women compared to today’s standards. Different cultures obviously have different standards for beauty which reflect the “cultural books” or symbolic associations that spread through minds in their local populations. For example, 19th century explorer John Hanning Speke who is credited for discovering the source of the Nile river was surprised by a custom of Abyssinian nobility (Ethiopians)  to fatten their wives to “such an extent that they could not stand up upright” (Taubes, p. 6220).

I am reminded of a daytime Tyra Banks show where she had a black girl talk about how she wished she was lighter skinned. The girl’s mother too talked about her own issues with her skin color. Actor-director Spike Lee’s classic movie on black-white relations “Jungle Fever” too does a great job of showing the pressure/effect that being lighter skinned or more “white looking” has on black women. I know that these are great generalizations, especially when it comes to judging beauty since it is something that is heavily influenced by the cultural brainwashing we get as we grow up. I am also reminded of a book I was flipping through one time, I don’t remember the title but it talked about sex and beauty. It had a picture of a woman from some African tribe with all kinds of ornaments on her face. To most of us who grow up in the West this woman would probably not look very attractive, but in her tribe she was considered to be exceptionally beautiful and the man who married her had to pay the woman’s family many cows and other animals that were considered a fortune in that tribe. Since we no longer grow up in isolated pockets of people where everyone looks relatively similar, now we have a situation where what is perceived superior in certain things like sports-manliness and beauty might lean more towards one particular “race”. After a few minutes searching on youtube I ran into a video from a recent high school graduated black girl in Alaska where she complains that black guys in her school only go out with light skinned girls, she says:

>“black boys don’t date black girls anymore…In Alaska it’s pretty extreme. You know the boys up here, for the most part—granted you could find a couple that would date a dark-skinned girl like myself—but for the most part they’re only dating girls that are either light-skinned and or mixed, other than that, up here, they are dating whites and Asians.” 

Many studies show that black men are more likely to attempt to contact a white woman online than a black woman. An okcupid.com study concluded that at least on their site:

>“Men don’t write black women back. Or rather, they write them back far less often than they should. Black women reply the most, yet get by far the fewest replies. Essentially every race—including other blacks—singles them out for the cold shoulder.”

In one of the hundreds of comments to the above okcupid.com article, a black woman wrote:

>“This article like all other ones like it, has left a bad taste in my mouth and not much hope in my heart as a black woman who is interested in finding love in whatever form it comes. I guess being the favored majority has given whites the ability to be selective. Whatever. Its been hammored to death. We all know. Some of us wont admit it, but we all know. My problem? What point is there for me? Seriously. At what point do you resign yourself to the fact that finding a mate is almost an impossible challenge already, and then with the added social stigmas completely unattainable. Why BE on a site like this. Progression in this country is a myth I swear. Because all the so called progressives are still harbouring traditionalist mentailities when it comes to things that are close to home. Like families, and mates, and social orders. Whatever. You have the right to be choosy I guess. And clearly you have done nothing but prove to me once again that the chances that I will find love, even with those most compatible with me (according to your system and your research) will NOT overcome the racial barriers placed in front of us. AND whats worse? The men of my OWN background prefer others! So thank you oktrends for taking the obvious and attempting to make it scientific. Excuse me while I attend to my 5 children ages newborn to toddler by 10 different men, cook my fried chicken, eat my watermelon, and comb my unruly ass hair. *Puke* You know what? I cant even blame you. Your findings arent revolutionary, they just support a stigma that was well in place before science came in to prove it. Your just reporting it. Things really dont change at all. The old messages are just reformed into more politically correct representations of racism. Its sad. Its not everybody. But there is enough to represent truth in your findings. And that is bad enough.”


This really sucks obviously. One of the reasons why this happens is due to the forced integration of people. For example, black people tend to attend churches that are predominantly populated by other blacks and have rituals or cultural elements that have been traditionally associated with blacks. Some sort of segregation by groups seems like a natural way for people to create a cultural environment that meets their needs, and our well intentioned forced integration, primarily via public schools, might interfere with the benefits that some levels of voluntary segregation might bring. Does this mean that I am advocating segregation, no, I am advocating whatever freedom discovers to be a better choice which might include some levels of voluntary segregation by both whites and blacks and people of any group-ethnicity-language-customs-etc. This seems pretty obvious and happens all the time. The United States unfortunately went from forced segregation, to forced integration when what we really need to discover what is best is freedom and emerging competition of ideas and ways thus the lack of coercion. But here too we find economic ignorance and the inevitable fear of freedom that it brings as the main motivator. The fear that poorer blacks would always be behind because whites “would always” afford better education became a feel-good call too strong to overcome thus leading the well intentioned bureaucrats and public to forcibly integrate schools and make criminals out of people who want to do things differently.

Another factor here is that mainstream culture is still very prudish and sort of removed from our more carnal instincts to say the least. We cover up out bodies leaving only the head which seems to cause special emphasis on our facial features and hair and so on. Things like this lead to places like Iran where women have to cover their hair in a scarf being the nose-job leader in the world. So big deal if generally speaking people prefer straight blond hair to a nappy afro. What are we going to do? When clothes come off, as in the real world and in the world of online pornography black women with their relatively amazing physiques are very successful.

In the late 1800’s and early 1900s when anyone could move to the US and there was no monolithic public education like we have today or any government policies aimed at forcibly integrating people, communities freely evolved to best meet the needs of their members. Cities would have various ghettoes where an immigrant who just arrived could easily find a community that spoke his language and get a job. These days this seems to only happen in major Hispanic populated cities like Los Angeles and Miami, yet even in such places high minimum wage laws make it increasingly hard for immigrants to get jobs even though they don’t need to know English in these places. 

Just like we discussed the role that black men played in sexual freedom, fun, dancing, music, etc., and in many ways taking humanity back to its more promiscuous biological roots, white women too played an important role. White women, especially prostitutes, played the leading role in changing how women dressed. They are the ones that kept pushing the envelope on showing skin and legs (to mainstream culture of course), they are the ones that popularized lipstick and make-up, these are things that originally only prostitutes would wear to be even more attractive. But eventually through mimicking and wanting to act like and look like that which is superior (which in terms of sex appeal prostitutes wanted to be leaders at) their trends spread to the public at large. They also played an important role in interracial harmony via their shameless servicing of blacks. Russell writes that:

>“One particularly thriving New York establishment called Spann’s advertised itself as a club of “white inmates for colored men.” Another speakeasy was described by investigators as employing “white inmates, operated for colored men only.” When a Chicago reformer visited a black-white club, he found “nine white women, eight of whom were there in the company of black men.” The moral reformers surveilling this underground scene were particularly appalled when they saw white women enticing black men with dancing that was “very sexual and indecent,” “degenerate,” and “obscene”. A Chicago vice investigator reported on a club in which “black men were seen dancing with white girls and vice versa.” The “actions of these people,” of course, “were absolutely disgusting.” Worst of all were the white prostitutes who liked servicing black customers, such as the woman in a New York speakeasy who worked part-time as a “hostess in a Broadway nightclub” but also “consorted with black men” in Harlem and declared that she preferred “the colored man’s technique.” (Russell, p. 120)



           

