


###  White guys who have mojo grew up with different cultural symbolism.

If we look at popular white musicians we find bands like Aerosmith. I know, they are not as popular these days but they were when I initially wrote this and I’m sticking to it since it still helps make the point I’m trying to get across. The members of Aerosmith grew up and absorbed cultural elements long before the current Hip-Hop takeover. The members of Aerosmith see themselves as cool, their minds grew up making associations between what was cool at the time and how well the bodies they controlled could fit in and compete in this medium. They were successful and they gained the confidence that comes from this. Because they grew up to absorb and be trendsetters in a time where their genre was truly cool according to the current social symbolism, they sang with bravado, they really lived sex, drugs and rock and roll. Their front man Steven Tyler sings and moves with the confidence of a man who feels sexy and desirable. Superbowl XL featured a 62 year old Rolling Stone’s front man Mick Jagger who like Steven Tyler displayed more cockiness and testosterone than many of the younger white musicians, the old timer’s minds see themselves as cool and have had a lifetime of positive reinforcement to verify this, they are relaxed and cocky and this confidence shows in their mannerisms and actions, but this is not the case with the new and current wave of white musicians. White musicians no longer rock like they used to, you don’t see cockiness from the front men, you see expressions and feelings but not bravado and testosterone to the extent that black musicians have. When you do see testosterone it is an angry depressed heavy metal sound. The music has more symbolism and fantasy as opposed to Hip-Hop and black musicians whose themes are more focused on real life, real women and day to day issues and less abstract or fictional topics. For example a popular group amongst white youth at the time of this writing is Gorillaz and it is composed of fictional cartoon characters. It is as if the symbolism that competes and appeals to our minds is being filled with black derived content and many minds that live inside white people are finding comfort in more fictional environments, because the real world of real muscles and real toughness that currently shapes popular culture is dominated by blacks. Super hero movies are popular, 30+ year old Star Wars fans, many movies that deal with historical or mystical/medieval topics from the past where white men were the only ones around in those settings are providing the cultural symbolism that is appealing to brains housed inside white bodies. Computer games and the fictitious environment they create are also growing in popularity for many whites, games like “World Of Warcraft” where one creates a fictional self that lives inside a fictitious world are providing alternative realities. There is nothing wrong with this obviously; with the exception of spending lots of time in role-playing computer games, the above, including liking popular songs by Gorillaz are things I like as well and I think that in many ways a freer society will be one with less of the sort of machismo that is so prevalent in Hip-Hop.

It is becoming increasingly common to watch black people, especially in our new Hip-Hop dominated environment, making fun of other races, not because there is anything inherent in being black that leads to this, it is simply because black men are in a position to do so and a few other things we’ve already hinted at. They just happen to be the ones that are bigger and stronger than others and this naturally affects their incentives and eventually character. Like a fat ugly kid who is being made fun of in school, white people disguise their frustration by being able to “laugh at themselves”, as so often happens in the various TV shows like MTV’s ‘Yo-Momma’ and ‘Wild and Out’ where it is common for people to insult each other and sort of win points by having the most humiliating putdown. In shows like these it is all too common to see white people being associated with “uncoolness” and at the butt of racially motivated jokes, whether it be being unathletic, nerdy, smaller penis, or increasingly associated with being gay, this is increasingly the types of associations that are filling up the modern “cultural book” for some of today’s American youth.



Black men pushing the envelope on fun-sex-drugs has played an important role in making America more “Conservative” to a certain degree. It is an important reason as to why the “Republican Party” or “Conservative” party is always the religious party who is for the strong moral elements (drug prohibition, God-given "rights", etc.) and is easily susceptible to “good” vs “evil” which ultimately mean less party or fun and dancing and activities that lead to more sexual freedom and thus more potential competition, especially from “threatening” minorities like blacks. I know this is a rather crude generalization but there is some truth to it. In many ways racist fallacies and thorny relations between blacks and whites in the US, inadvertently played a significant role in saving civilization from Socialist mythology. To a significant degree, the desire to not share wealth with blacks was a significant factor in America’s rejection of Socialist mythology. Had the US had a more homogeneous all-white population, the appeal to share the wealth via socialism would have been stronger and likely have succeeded in taking the US towards Soviet Union-like Communism during the 1920s-1940s. The increased religiousity and its 'God-given rights' also helped slow down the Atheistic Commununism-Socialism. This also helps us understand how as America and the whole world fell in love with great musicians like The Platters, The Supremes, The Temptations, Dionne Warwick, Aretha Franklin, Ray Charles and countless others... as mostly white people filled stadiums cheering on mostly black athletes, in other words, as we became less racist and sympathized with black's ill-treatment and relative lack of prosperity, we understandably saw wealth redistribution and various socialist schemes as a way to help, inadvertently destroying the very freedom and emerging and increasing socioeconomic harmony that had been occurring, leading to where we are today.  

If one knows where to look and how to interpret the 'echo chamber' that is increasingly dominating the Democratic party-Left one can easily see how using the government to bring about coerced "inclusion" (women, minorities, gays, etc.) is seen as the key to improving the world. This could not happen without the support of white men themselves, but as previously discussed, many white men, fully believing the aforementioned fallacies feel heroic by admitting their racial guilt and so on.

The new Biden administration is intensifying this dangerous 'echo chamber' of economic fallacy with statements like this regarding post CovidMania central planning-socialism: 

>"Our priority will be Black, Latino, Asian, and Native American owned small businesses, women-owned businesses, and finally having equal access to resources needed to reopen [and rebuild." -- Biden](https://twitter.com/transition46/status/1348403213200990209) 

The Bolshevik-like level of ignorance and anti-white-male-hate that now dominates the Biden administration and much of the "woke" world was nicely summarized by popular congresswoman from New York, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, when she mentioned in 1/14/2021:

>"The Republican Party...They don't give a damn about the law. They don't give a damn about order. They don't give a damn about safety. They give a damn about white supremacy. They care about preserving the social order and the mythology of whiteness....[They lust for power more than they care about democracy"](https://fb.watch/30UP0Ssj-V/)

The slightly smarter apes are segregating for the usual monkey slaughter. 

How freedom leads to economic competition which spreads knowledge and superior socioeconomic order, how prices allow economic calculation, how interest rates pair wealth with superior plans. None of this is understood by most of today's "leaders" because such mechanisms were not "invented" by men. It may be more correct to say that they invented us. To your average citizen and politician, black, white, asian...the economic ignorance is the same for all of us slightly smarter apes. The above simplistic ideology understandably dominates not just the US government but global governing bodies who are understandibly more interested 'diversity' and 'gender equality' than actually discovering the best way of achieving prosperity. There are only so many bananas in the tree, white men seem to have more bananas, and obviously we must force them to share the bananas. We must sacrifice the virgins, we must kill the heretics, we must jail those who don't social distance. The slightly smarter apes are going wild.

Here we can see further factors leading to the modern political Left-Right divide that has the USSA on the brink of civil war. If you are going to have a civil war-unrest you need some simplistic ideas which can segregate-polarize the economically ignorant masses. To one economically ignorant horde of slightly smarter apes (the political "Left"-"Democrats"-"Liberals"), the political "Right"-"Republicans"-"Conservatives" is just the "racist white man who uses capitalism to exploit and maintain the status quo for his benefit and Donald Trump and all the other white 'conservative' leaders are the perfect embodiment of this fact". That's pretty much it. It is so-called "identity politics", where the "racist white man" and his antiquated values(religion) oppresses or discriminates against various groups-"identities"(women-minorities-gays) and overturning such supposed political-economic oppression is what is needed to fix the world's problems by sharing more wealth and funding social programs (competition-less government monopolies) that treat everyone fairly-equitably. The fact that many whites understandably make the erroneous assumption that their blood-race-religion was a very significant factor in the recent emergence of civilization only helps add fuel to the Left-Right polarization-hatreds. Many whites-liberals, with the best of intentions, might be ashamed of the imperialist past of their ancestors or of the racism of their parents-uncles-friends-etc. or their own "shameful" preference for perhaps blue-eyed blondes and erroneously believe that such a past-racism-preference is a significant factor in the relative underachievement-problems of other groups-minorities. A well intentioned economically ignorant person can easily find some "racist CEO" who discriminates based on race and "voilà! this racism is the root of the problems!". This sort of collective sense of guilt is what allows Black Lives Matter rioters to destroy cities virtually unopposed. So we can see how economic ignorance inevitably leads both blacks and whites to increasingly see whatever racism might exist as an increasingly significant problem to fix, via massive government-monopoly-coercion of course as can be seen by today's Democratic party's prominent focus on 'racial justice'. Both groups are wrong. It should be easy to see that the explosion in relative human prosperity and technology mankind has stumbled upon during the last 200 years has little to do with biological differences and much more to do with the expansion of the global 'division of labor and information'-free-trade-competition-Capitalism, etc. If a human being can grow up and learn something as complex as a language, which can take even the brightest of people years to master, everyone has more than enough intelligence to understand the basics of how freedom-privatization-free-(trade-movement) are the keys to rapid socioeconomic progress. Clever economic education-marketing is obviously the key.
 
