

### Private Governance (The Wisdom of the Anarcho-Capitalists (Friedman-Rothbard-Tannehills)).

Hayek writes:

>"…the history of China provides many instances of government attempts to enforce so perfect an order that innovation became impossible. This country, technologically and scientifically developed so far ahead of Europe that, to give only one illustration, it had ten oil wells operating on one stretch of the river Po already in the twelfth century, certainly owed its later stagnation, but not its early progress, to the manipulatory power of its governments. What led the greatly advanced civilisation of China to fall behind Europe was its government's clamping down so tightly as to leave no room for new developments, while, as remarked in the last chapter, Europe probably owes its extraordinary expansion in the Middle Ages to its political anarchy" [(Hayek, 1988, p. 44)](https://books.google.com/books?id=YQLYAQAAQBAJ&pg=PA45&lpg=PA45&dq=%22Europe+probably+owes+its+extraordinary+expansion+in+the+Middle+Ages+to+its+political+anarchy%22&source=bl&ots=OdrpACuIRZ&sig=ACfU3U0bJQJuY3PuMN0tExE9cXiIi_mO7Q&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjH94Xs5fDoAhW8knIEHWHYBS4Q6AEwBHoECAsQOA#v=onepage&q=%22Europe%20probably%20owes%20its%20extraordinary%20expansion%20in%20the%20Middle%20Ages%20to%20its%20political%20anarchy%22&f=false)


The "political anarchy" Hayek refers to just means that there was no central authority preventing-monopolizing legal-religious-moral-ethical knowledge and thus preventing the superior knowledge-discovery that cultural evolution-competition brings about. Not only does government stamp out competition which is the main selective-competitive process that helps us discover what is best in terms of how to go about providing goods and services but also what rules-laws, judicial-penal-transportation systems and more are best. As Hayek tells us “…selection by evolution is prevented by government monopolies that make competitive experimentation impossible.” (Hayek F. A., 1989, p. 103) Since freedom, decentralization, and the economic-legal-moral competition it creates is the best way to discover superior information and subsequent order, why not allow freedom-competition in things we usually associate with monopolistic governments like the legal and penal systems and more? The cultural evolutionary-competitive process that has shaped religions and more recently secular governments which provide such governmental functions has been happening blindly, and has been largely tied to the religious myths we inevitably see as absolutes, which explains why the legal-penal systems are still draped in religious-like mysticism. Think of priestly judges and their costumes-robes, temple-like court buildings-etc., but once we understand the competitive process we can use it to our advantage. Imagine if people could own large chunks of land and have more sovereignty or freedom as to what laws-rules people should abide by in them. Today the knowledge of how to plan a city, what laws-rules we should follow, what should be the repercussions of breaking such rules-laws, how to design a transportation-legal-penal system and so much more comes about the bureaucratic-monopolized-politicized process that shapes the inefficient public sector. By allowing people the freedom to create such cities we introduce competition in these areas which will discover superior laws-rules-contracts, ways to build transportation systems, ways to deal with people who break the rules and so on. If people wanted to move to such cities they would just sign a contract saying that they would abide by its rules, which is no different than what we do today when we move to a new country-state, which is just agreeing to abide by certain rules. This is similar to choosing product A over product B. In this case people are selecting one set of laws-rules over the other, nourishing a better social order-information while starving an inferior one. They vote for a better system with their feet.

Think about a small country like the island nation of Grenada. Grenada has about 110,000 people living in an area of about 130 square miles and its social order produced about 1.1 billion dollars’ worth of wealth in 2007. Like all modern nations its government has a monopoly on law enforcement, courts, defense, and many other services. Microsoft, Wal-Mart, and IBM coordinate about 90,000, 2,100,000 and 400,000 employees respectively and in the year 2008 had a combined productive output of about 500 billion dollars’ worth of wealth. If allowed, isn’t it obvious that the aforementioned companies or similar private sector orders, whose employees count among the world’s hardest working and best educated minds, would be better able to manage a similarly sized social order-city than the Grenada bureaucrats? Of course they would, and a similar line of thinking should apply to social orders or private cities of any size.

Considerably more privatization, or a world without governments as we currently envision them might seem like a weird or shocking concept at first but upon closer examination its tremendous benefits and feasibility should become obvious. Take the provision of law enforcement for example(or any municipal service).  Police departments are city-wide government monopolies, which like all monopolies, immune from competition due to government decree and economic ignorance grow to become gigantic consumptive bureaucracies. For example, California prison guards can earn upwards of $300,000 per year due to lucrative overtime pay. A police commander in Delray Beach, Florida, was making $90,000 per year when he retired at the age of 42 after working for 21 years. He got a $65,000 per year pension that is guaranteed for life, adjusted for inflation, and includes medical care. If we assume he dies at 82 years old, he would have worked for only about a third of his adult life and Florida taxpayers would have paid an additional $2.6 million plus medical expenses while getting nothing in protection services in return.  There is nothing wrong with making a lot of money when one creates a lot of wealth and then trades such wealth in the free market, where competition ensures that the way such wealth was created is efficient, and is usually part of a profitable cycle that leaves the economic pie larger. But these people’s wages are not reflective of superior knowledge and productivity, they are reflective of the evolution of a political system dominated by self-serving unions and ignorant or flat-out corrupt politicians who find cleverer and more subtle ways to tax the public and believe that no price is too high to pay for such vital services. So how can privatization and competition be introduced in law enforcement and other sectors which we are so used to associating with inherently inefficient government monopolies?

A more privatized world should not seem so shocking when one realizes that our world as it currently works can already be seen as being privatized. By simply seeing each country’s government as a private corporation that has a rightful monopoly in the provision of everything the government does like courts, roads, law enforcement and national defense, we can already see the world as being 100% privatized. Each country’s government can be seen as a complicated set of laws that apply over a territory, or as a company that has a monopoly of providing law-courts-defense services over the territory it owns. It is important to realize that a company is really just a contract between individuals and the same can be said about a government. Just like corporations have their corporate bylaws where the people who create the company craft and agree to rules describing how various aspects of the company will be run, the US’s government can be seen as a corporation whose corporate bylaws are described in the US Constitution and the thousands of pages of existing regulations, etc. So just like governments can be seen in a more privatized way by thinking of them as private corporations, laws can be seen as clauses in a contract.

One of the most important things to realize is that the world currently works without a global government. For example, when someone commits a crime and flees the country, most countries have extradition agreements with other countries that dictate how they will coordinate the transfer of suspected or convicted criminals. And even when such formal agreements do not exist, as is the case with the US and China, it is in all nations’ best interest to coordinate in such matters and be seen by other nations as acting ethically. For the most part this works pretty well and we want things to be this way. We want “criminals” to have the option to flee to other countries because maybe they are not really criminals. What makes someone a criminal is relative to existing laws or rules. We would not want people fleeing a tyrannical government to be extradited back to their country of origin because they broke a law which most of us would consider absurd or unjust. This is one of the ways in which cultural evolution has been selecting superior laws. People have moved from oppressive societies and their bad laws to freer societies and their better laws, starving the oppressive countries of manpower and intellect, while nourishing the freer nations like the United States, helping them grow stronger which helps them spread their superior values and laws. We see this in CovidMania as people flee the more draconian lockdown-states like California and New York for no-lockdown Florida.

We should once again remind ourselves of the unintended evils of coercive-competitionless-monopolies-government, especially world government organizations like the World Health Organization. Their rules-regulations-laws are discovered via the usual mixture of human tribalism, economic ignorance, all kinds of special interests, corruption, and so much more. There is no competition, no voting with your feet once the laws-regulations apply to the entire world. 

When farmers use selective breeding to create a bigger cow or ear of corn, they can be said to consciously use their knowledge of evolution to their advantage. When they breed a bigger cow, they do not know what genes or groups of them led to the bigger cow, but by selecting the bigger cow, they got the right genes without having to tinker with them. Just like a cow, society is a large organism, and in many ways the laws, customs, rules, knowledge, and regulations that it contains can be seen as genes. The way all of these things interact can be very complex and lead to results that are impossible to predict. We cannot just pass some law-rule and predict all future outcomes. For example, things like drug prohibition, appropriate age or method used to label someone a minor, and similar rules have countless unintended consequences, which might depend on the interaction with other social rules making it even harder to pinpoint how exactly each law-rule affects society. Just like changing a gene or two in an animal can lead to unexpected results as that gene interacts with many biological processes leading to who-knows-what given the complexities of an animal, so can the rules-laws of society. Just like the breeders select at the whole cow level based on simple criteria, like how much milk it produces, without knowing about the genes that achieve this, free individuals can choose to move to societies whose rules might lead to overall better results based on simple criteria without having to know how all the laws-rules-etc. lead to such a superior social order. For example, a person did not have to understand how the United States’ laws and social institutions created a better society than communist Cuba in order to want to come to the US. They just looked at simple things like how much they could afford given the money they expected to earn in their jobs.

By allowing more freedom and the ability to freely manage-create entire cities or anything else, we would consciously use cultural evolution to select for superior “breeds of laws-rules” and many other things just like biologists-farmers-fishermen use their knowledge of biological evolution to grow better crops-fish.

Understanding cultural evolution and the workings of the market process has been a little harder to see than biological evolution. Thanks to modern technology we can almost see the genes and evolution happen under our microscopes, but cultural evolution, the evolution of the market process, language, law, various socioeconomic institutions and so on are not tangible things that have led themselves to easier experimentation like the biological world.

As in the case of international law and things like extradition, one can see how the global lawful superstructure that we can naively expect a global government to carry out, does not need a global government and naturally evolves from the bottom up as the various sub-units/countries/individuals contract with each other. Private cities-kingdoms would create the same kinds of extradition contracts the way today’s countries have evolved them. If some kind of cooperation is truly in the best interest of all potential cooperators, whether they’d be individuals, or large groups of them, the contractual bonds that would solidify such cooperation will naturally grow from their self-interests. Again, whenever we expect things to be done, it comes naturally for us to envision some visible and deliberately created manmade leader-coordinator-structure-bureaucracy to be the one that carries it out, and we tend to be unaware of how a contractual structure that evolves through time can lead to superior results and is in fact what sustains the modern world.

The above should NOT be seen as some moralist crusade or desire to abolish governments. Like law, language, and 'the market process', governments have been crucial social institutions, we just want to understand their evolution and how to improve them to maximize prosperity. If the world's governments were run by people familiar with Mises-Hayek-etc. and were focused on maximizing freedom and competitive knowledge discovery, all would be great, the problem is that governments are usually run by economically clueless apes who want to centrally plan and-or do other less than ideal things. 

