
### Cultural Evolution and De-evolution via Socialism.


Knowing that 'private property' is the simple tradition from which emerges a chain-reaction of incentives which creates civilization, we can look at the past and see a sort of petri-dish of inadvertently competing cultures and realize that those cultures whose customs inadvertently became more peaceful and thus less violent, extended peace, friendship, trade to those outside the tribe, etc., in other words, respected "private property" and thus individual liberty more and more, would inadvertently gain the emerging benefits of superior ‘competitive knowledge discovery’, become more technologically advanced-powerful, and as they grew relative to other groups, they would inadvertently spread the very customs and evolving economic system (capitalism) that allowed them to reach such relative heights. This ‘cultural evolution’ happened mostly without the design, intention, or the “reason” of homo sapiens. A great example of this process was the ‘Protestant Reformation’. For centuries the Catholic Church’s traditions held immense coercive-monopoly-competitionless power which prevented or retarded individual freedom and emerging 'competitive knowledge discovery'. In the early 1500s, among other religious reinterpretations, Martin Luther preached that indulgences (payments to the Catholic Church to help one go to heaven) were unnecessary, that a person could go to heaven by believing in Christ without the Catholic Church’s approval, and that the Bible itself, not the Church’s edicts-interpretations was what mattered. This helped reduce the coercive-monopoly power of the Catholic Church and spark a pro-freedom and thus emergent 'competitive knowledge discovery' that would lead to skyrocketing rates of innovation-production-prosperity in Europe-Christendom. Now, very important! Did Martin Luther “reason” that his religious reinterpretations would accelerate 'competitive knowledge discovery' leading to global Capitalism and homo sapiens' recent sky-rocketing prosperity? Of course not! Just like solitary cells millions of years ago inadvertently created the respiratory-circulatory-nervous-etc. “systems” that led to multicellular organisms without "designing them", so is the free-market-Capitalism “indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design” (Adam Ferguson) or as Carl Menger writes, it arose “as the unintended product of historical development.” Hayek elaborates:

>“We have never designed our economic system. We were not intelligent enough for that. We have stumbled into it and it has carried us to unforeseen heights and given rise to ambitions which may yet lead us to destroy it.” (Hayek, 1981, p. 164)

By the late 1700s, the bewildering complexity of modern cities coupled with, per above, man not having the slightest clue how the "competitive knowledge discovery" that creates civilization “emerges” from “private property” and thus personal liberty since this amazing mechanism had been designed, not by clever men, but by an evolutionary process we didn’t even really understand at the time, homo sapiens understandably fell for all the usual anti-Capitalist, pro-Socialist-Nationalist central planning-tribal fallacies which still dominate popular thinking to this day. 

For example, Saint-Simon(1760-1825), the founder of French Socialism, wanted to organize a great “Council of Newton” made up of “three mathematicians, three physicists, three chemists, three physiologists, three authors, three painters and three musicians” who would then use their supposedly superior genius to tell everyone else what to do. Saint-Simon explains:

>“All men will work; they will regard themselves as laborers attached to one workshop whose efforts will be directed to guide human intelligence according to my divine foresight. The supreme Council of Newtown will [direct their works”](https://archive.org/stream/counterrevolutio030197mbp/counterrevolutio030197mbp_djvu.txt)

Hayek comments that:

>“Saint-Simon has no qualms about the means that will be employed to enforce the instructions of his central planning body: “Anybody who does not obey the orders will be treated by the others as a quadruped” ” [(Hayek F. A., 1979, pp. 221-2)](https://archive.org/stream/counterrevolutio030197mbp/counterrevolutio030197mbp_djvu.txt)

Hayek again referring to men in general:

>"To them the market economy is largely incomprehensible;... and its results seem to them irrational and immoral. They often see in it merely an arbitrary structure maintained by some sinister power.” (Hayek F. A., 1981, pp. 164-5)
 
Who is that 'sinister power'? Each group of economically ignorant people depending on their history and numerous circumstances mistakenly identifies a different boogeyman. Since the recent and rapid evolution of 'the market process'-Capitalism occurred in Europe, understandably so for much of the third world and non-whites, it is "the white man" and his "exploitative Capitalism" and-or "racism". There is of course, the "evil corporations", "the rich-CEOs", "greed", "sexism", "minorities", "immigrants", "the Jews", etc. It is as if we are fooled into believing that just because the social order is the result of human action, that our problems are likewise the result of conscious planning or design or plotting by fellow slightly smarter apes. They are not. They are overwhelmingly the result of economic ignorance.

The inadvertent emergence of freedom and resulting 'competitive knowledge discovery' in Europe had given the whiter-looking homo sapiens a relative technological advantage, which they understandably mistakenly attributed to their "race" and also religion which justified their Imperialism. As Herbert Spencer angrily laments in 1898:

>"Now that the white savages of Europe are overrunning the dark savages everywhere — now that the European nations are vying with one another in political burglaries — now that we have entered upon an era of social cannibalism in which the strong nations are devouring the weaker... it is useless to resist the wave of barbarism. There is a bad time coming, and civilized mankind will (morally) be uncivilized before civilization [can again advance."(17 July, 1898)](https://archive.org/stream/b29012193/b29012193_djvu.txt)

By the early 1900s viral economic fallacies and their socialist-statist-(central-monopoly planning) ideological result had gripped much of the western world’s intellectuals and public. Mises writes:

>"By 1900 practically everyone in the German-speaking countries was either a statist (interventionist) or a state socialist. Capitalism was seen as a bad episode which fortunately had ended forever. The future belonged to the “State.” All enterprises suitable for expropriation were to be taken over by the state. All others were to be regulated in a way that would prevent businessmen from exploiting workers and consumers…When I entered the university, [I, too, was a thorough statist."](https://books.google.com/books?id=it9c6z4bw_8C&pg=PA79&lpg=PA79&dq=%22When+I+entered+the+university,+I,+too,+was+a+thorough+statist%22&source=bl&ots=w7tJ43ISAj&sig=ACfU3U25jZ_hfdZNRCe7ZwW4BAdfeq9_Kg&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwi03rH_48TuAhXSt1kKHWPRCn0Q6AEwAXoECAYQAg#v=onepage&q=%22When%20I%20entered%20the%20university%2C%20I%2C%20too%2C%20was%20a%20thorough%20statist%22&f=false) (Hullsman, p. 79)

The recent success of the physical sciences, as well as Darwin's theory of evolution, led to a rapidly evolving sort of "Priesthood of Scientism" which saw religion and its traditions of "private property" and family as something backward and a tool of the growing business-Capitalist-"Bourgeoisie" class. Just like complex environmental factors create selective pressures that favor the spread of certain genes, the environment was ripe for the emergence of a new religion-mythology, Socialism-Communism-Scientism-'Coercive Competition-immune Central Planning by Experts'-Statism. Eventually some slightly smarter ape would describe these increasingly popular fallacies-myths in a manner that was bound to go viral and that is what happened with Karl Marx and his bite-sized 'Communist Manifesto':

>"the theory of the Communists may be summed up in the single sentence: Abolition of private property"...."Abolition of the family!" 

To engineer society or attempt to improve it via government or 'Central Planning' one inevitably has to curb the freedom of the individual in order to implement the social engineer-government’s plans. As Adam Smith said with respect to the ‘social engineer’-leader-politician or what he refers to as “the man of system”:

>“The man of system, on the contrary, is apt to be very wise in his own conceit; and is often so enamoured with the supposed beauty of his own ideal plan of government, that he cannot suffer the smallest deviation from any part of it. He goes on to establish it completely and in all its parts, without any regard either to the great interests, or to the strong prejudices which may oppose it. He seems to imagine that he can arrange the different members of a great society with as much ease as the hand arranges the different pieces upon a chess-board. He does not consider that the pieces upon the chess-board have no other principle of motion besides that which the hand impresses upon them; but that, in the great chess-board of human society, every single piece has a principle of motion of its own, altogether different from that which the legislature might chuse to impress upon it. If those two principles coincide and act in the same direction, the game of human society will go on easily and harmoniously, and is very likely to be happy and successful. If they are opposite or different, the game will go on miserably, and the society must be at all times in the highest degree of disorder.” (Smith, p. VI.II.42)


#### Lenin's Bolshevik Revolution.

We now reach the end of World War One (1918) when Vladimir Lenin begins to take control of Russia and attempts to bring about Socialism-Communism in what became the Soviet Union(1922). Lenin was "the man of system". As he tried hard to give a more "just", "equal", or "rational" order to the Russian people via government planning as opposed to letting the market process and individual economic freedom do so, he acknowledged and said the following, which seems like the perfect and unfortunate compliment to Adam Smith's recent quote-wisdom:

>"The machine refused to obey the hand that guided it. It was like a car that was going not in the direction the driver desired, but in the direction someone else desired; as if it were being driven by some mysterious, lawless hand, God knows whose, perhaps of a profiteer, or of a private capitalist, or of both. Be that as it may, the car is not going quite in the direction that the man at the wheel imagines, and often goes in an altogether different direction." (Lenin)

Lenin, as well as most people, believed that ["the key feature is people, the proper choice of people"](https://www.marxists.org/archive/lenin/works/1922/mar/27.htm), and if we could just have the right people-experts-'Great Leaders' with the right values government-central management would work. But Lenin was wrong of course, it is not so much the individual cells-people that matter, it is the system, it is freedom and its emergent competitive knowledge and socioeconomic order spreading mechanisms. It makes perfect sense how a bunch of economically clueless slightly smarter apes would go wild looking for and pledging support to the ape they feel has the right personal qualities (courage, honesty, intelligence, toughness, etc.) and coercing everyone to go along with the "master plans" while being totally ignorant of the need to discover the time-and-place information and incentives that can actually order mankind profitably (again, a manner-cycle in which more order-wealth is produced than consumed). The public not only believes that we need a benevolent dictator; the system naturally selects him for us. A confident fool will sway more minds than a doubtful and considerate genius. It is the man who thoroughly believes that he has the right “master plan” and great group of friends, that carries himself with the needed confidence to sway and inspire the public. As Bertrand Russell put it “The trouble with the world is that the stupid are cocksure and the intelligent are full of doubt.”


It is important that we see Communism-'Central Planning' and Lenin's Bolshevik Revolution and other Socialist-Communist uprisings which dominated the 20th century, as well as all of our socioeconomic problems since they are all caused by competitionless-coercive-central-planning, as an almost inevitable spread of viral self-reinforcing economic fallacies and incentives that were just bound to finally spark in truly sustainable reactions. A young idealistic Russian could worry about how to make a good living in the always-uncertain and competitive private sector, or by joining Lenin and his Socialist Bolsheviks(government) he could become a hero to mankind by just forcing farmers-others to give up (share) their grain-wealth to feed a bureaucracy-monopoly of "experts" who would plan an allegedly superior order. Sign me up! We must focus on how the ideas arise and spread and create intellectual 'echo chambers' and 'incentive structures' that lead the slightly smarter apes into either carnage or civilization. 

We should also highlight the fact that ideologues ultimately stumble upon the realization that in order to carry out their wonderful plans, they must either coerce the public directly via edicts, force, direct taxes or regulations, or, even better, simply control the central banks. It becomes a lot easier to spread your ideology and create an 'incentive structure' where most people go along with your wonderful ideas when you can create the money and assure the public that you can provide the money-wealth they need. The money=wealth mass-fallacy-myth easily causes the slightly smarter apes to totally self-destroy as 1) It allows transfers of wealth from the productive private sector to the centrally-planned inefficiently ordered bureaucracies which will consume more than they produce thus destroying social order 2) It easily motivates the masses to peacefully fool themselves and even clamor for such an ultimately disastrous rearrangement. Again, we just have to remember Alan and his castle. The masses go from fear and uncertainty to the comfort of working towards the 'master plan' and see how they are getting the money they foolishly equate with wealth. We can easily see the inadvertent evolution of this process in our modern world where what increasingly matters to politicians-ideologues-masses is who will appoint or control the technocrats who run the 'central banks'-'Federal Reserve' and will thus be able to keep creating money-"stimulus" to take wealth from the private sector to seemingly accomplish anything  (Green New Deal, free education and healthcare, 'racial equality', visit gatesnotes.com for an up-to-date list of all potential 'social problems' and how Bill and Melinda Gates have a 'master plan' to solve each). This is essentially what the latest monkey-economics Modern Monetary Theory is all about. It is just continuous money-creation-taxation by central bank ideologues-technocrats. Regarding this disastrous myth of using money-creation-"inflationism" to manage society, something that the slightly smarter apes understandably repeatedly fall for, Hayek writes:

>"I do not think it is an exaggeration to say history is largely a history of inflation, usually inflations engineered by governments for the gain of governments."

>"Inflation is probably the most important single factor in that vicious circle wherein one kind of government action makes more and more government control necessary. For this reason all those who wish to stop the drift toward increasing government control should concentrate their effort on monetary policy." (Hayek, 1978)

Mises:

>"Inflation is the fiscal complement of statism and arbitrary government. It is a cog in the complex of policies and institutions which gradually lead toward totalitarianism."

A gold standard (or crypto these days perhaps) makes "inflationism" impossible thus helping keep wealth with the peaceful and productive private sector and away from tribalistic apes and their clueless Socialism and militarism.

>"Inflationism, however, is not an isolated phenomenon. It is only one piece in the total framework of politico-economic and socio-philosophical ideas of our time. Just as the sound money policy of gold standard advocates went hand in hand with liberalism, free trade, capitalism and peace, so is inflationism part and parcel of imperialism, militarism, protectionism, statism and socialism." (Mises, 2006, p. 43)

Lenin was a "great leader" who had the "strength" to carry out his vision. An example of one of the orders he was sending to various cities-districts to deal with farmers (kulaks) who were rebelling against the grain requisitions went as follows:

>“Comrades! The kulak uprising in your five districts must be crushed without pity. The interests of the whole revolution demand such actions, for the final struggle with the kulaks has now begun. You must make an example of these people. (1) Hang (I mean hang publicly, so that people see it) at least 100 kulaks, rich bastards, and known blood-suckers. (2) Publish their names. (3) Seize all their grain. (4) Single out the hostages per my instructions in yesterday’s telegram. Do all this so that for miles around people see it all. Understand it, tremble, and tell themselves that we are killing the bloodthirsty kulaks and that we will continue to do so. Reply saying you have received and carried out these instructions. Yours, Lenin. P.S. Find tougher people.” (Panne, et al., p. 72)"

The unproductive chaos-tyranny that Lenin was creating inevitably brought a gigantic famine that would claim about 5 million lives in 1921 and 1922. The majestic “The Black Book of Communism: Crimes, Terror, Repression” explains:

>“Despite the bad harvest of 1920…All grain stocks, even the seed for the future harvest, had been seized. Numerous peasants had virtually nothing to eat since January 1921. The mortality rate had immediately increased in February. In the space of two to three months, riots and revolts against the regime had effectively stopped in the province of Samara. “Today,” Vavilin explained, “there are no more revolts. We see new phenomena instead: crowds of thousands of starving people gather around the Executive Committee or the Party headquarters of the soviet to wait, for days and days, for the miraculous appearance of the food they need. It is impossible to chase this crowd away, and every day more of them die. They are dropping like flies…I think there must be at least 900,000 starving people in this province.” … “Though perfectly well informed of the inevitable consequences of the requisitioning policy, the government took no steps to combat these predicted effects. On 30 July 1921, while famine gripped a growing number of regions, Lenin and Molotov sent a telegram to all leaders of regional and provincial Party committees asking them to “bolster the mechanisms for food collection…step up the propaganda for the rural population, explaining the economic and political importance of the prompt payment of taxes…put at the disposal of the agencies for the collection of taxes in kind all the authority of the Party, and allow them to use all the disciplinary measures that the state itself would use.”” (Panne, et al., pp. 120-1)

Fortunately other Bolshevik leaders helped Lenin accept relief from international organizations like the Red Cross, the Quakers, and future US President Herbert Hoover’s American Relief Association whose combined efforts fed a whopping 11 million people each day. Lenin’s anti-market thus anti-production and thus anti-life-order government-control-measures where such a disaster that by 1921 Lenin scaled some of it back in what was called the NEP (New Economic Policy). The NEP essentially reintroduced some levels of private property-enterprise, especially for farmers-kulaks, which immediately led to a better functioning of the market process and substantial increases in food production.

Among the numerous things to learn from this and similar disasters is the fact that it is understandably difficult for ideologues like Lenin and his governmental structure ('echo chamber' of 'experts' and 'incentive structure' since they are wholly dependent on wealth taken by force from the masses) to change their minds since not only do they have to admit to error but also realize that they have caused unimaginable suffering. This is just the kind of stuff the slightly smarter apes don't do that often. The 'echo chambers' just intensify and get more negligent. The incentives are to look the other way, or place the blame elsewhere. Even though Lenin was becoming aware of the chaos he was causing, he understandably had incentives to look for other causes, like saboteurs, the rich-'capitalist exploiters', not social distancing enough, the religious-church who did not want to relinquish power-authority etc. It was his economic policies that were intensifying the misery, but he would just double-down further intensifying it. 


#### Central Planning in Science. The Soviet Union's Trofim Lysenko.


The Soviet Union's rule by competition-immune "monopoly of experts-scientists" had disastrous consequences for scientific research as well. We are fooled into believing that it is "scientists" that make our wonderful innovations, but it is not "scientists" per se, but competition which requires freedom of course, something the Soviet Union lacked leading to massive competition-immune bureaucracies that evolved to fight change-discoveries and warp science-research in political-ideological ways. A particularly disastrous "scientist" who rose to the top in the 1930s was [Trofim Lysenko](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trofim_Lysenko) who led a campaign against the growing field of genetics, had many other [scientists-critics persecuted-killed](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2017/12/trofim-lysenko-soviet-union-russia/548786/) and whose competition-immune theories related to farming led to millions of deaths via crop failures both in Russia, and later in China helping lead to the Great Chinese Famine which [claimed 15-55 million lives.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Chinese_Famine#Extent_of_the_famine). Being a favorite of Stalin and also on good terms with his successor Nikita Khrushchev it wasn't until Khrushchev's downfall in 1963 that Lysenko was thoroughly discredited. From [his wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trofim_Lysenko):

>"In 1964, physicist [Andrei Sakharov](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrei_Sakharov) spoke out against Lysenko in the General Assembly of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR:

>>"He is responsible for the shameful backwardness of Soviet biology and of genetics in particular, for the dissemination of pseudo-scientific views, for adventurism, for the degradation of learning, and for the defamation, firing, arrest, even death, of many [genuine scientists.""](http://www.learntoquestion.com/seevak/groups/2003/sites/sakharov/AS/biography/dissent.html)



#### The Collapse of the Soviet Union. Ludwig von Mises saves Civilization.


Even though plenty of people knew Communism would bring about unimaginable suffering, the rate at which the economic ignorance-fallacies and perverse incentives appealed to the tribalistic smarter apes was much faster than the rate at which proper arguments against it could spread. One could say that the definitive knockout blow that proved the impossibility of central planning did not even exist until Ludwig von Mises wrote his ["Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth"](https://mises.org/library/economic-calculation-socialist-commonwealth) in 1920, far away and in a foreign language. Without sound economic arguments which were also brief enough to be somewhat viral much of mankind was doomed. The religious traditions of looking at the world's problems as the result of "good" vs. "evil" did not work with the atheistic Socialists-Communists who thanks to scientific progress-Darwin could easily discard deity-based arguments, in other words, mankind was stuck in what Mises referred to as "the moral sphere". Although within the context of economics, the following quote from Mises applies to all of mankind's problems. In just two consecutive paragraphs Mises does away with the "they are evil" fallacy, and the "they are mad" fallacy:

>"The problems involved are purely intellectual and must be dealt with as such. It is disastrous to shift them to the moral sphere and to dispose of supporters of opposite ideologies by calling them villains. It is vain to insist that what we are aiming at is good and what our adversaries want is bad. The question to be solved is precisely what is to be considered as good and what as bad. The rigid dogmatism peculiar to religious groups and to Marxism results only in irreconcilable conflict. It condemns beforehand all dissenters as evildoers, it calls into question their good faith, it asks them to surrender unconditionally. No social cooperation is possible where such an attitude prevails.

>No better is the propensity, very popular nowadays, to brand supporters of other ideologies as lunatics. Psychiatrists are vague in drawing a line between sanity and insanity. It would be preposterous for laymen to interfere with this fundamental issue of psychiatry. However, it is clear that if the mere fact that a man shares erroneous views and acts according to his errors qualifies him as mentally disabled, it would be very hard to discover an individual to which the epithet sane or normal could be attributed. Then we are bound to call the past generations lunatic because their ideas about the problems of the natural sciences and concomitantly their techniques differed from ours. Coming generations will call us lunatics for the same reason. Man is liable to error. If to err were the characteristic feature of mental disability, then everybody should be called mentally disabled." [(Mises, 1998)](https://mises.org/library/human-action-0/html/pp/714)


Thus the ideological battle between the atheistic-"scientific" anti-(religion-tradition) 'central planning by experts' viral fallacies and inherited religious traditions and existing order continued, with religion, private property, and thus humanity, suffering immensely. In the period between 1927 and 1940, the number of Orthodox Churches in the Soviet Union fell from 29,584 to less than 500. The Soviet Union’s anti-religion purges were equal-opportunity, in 1917 there were over 20,000 Islamic mosques in the Soviet Union, by 1935 there would be less than 60. Thousands of priests would stick to their faith and quickly be shot. The atheistic nature of the Soviet Union obviously played a role in making it so much easier to discard human life and thus tremendously deadlier. 


As Socialist economic fallacies were rapidly spreading across Europe via Lenin's Bolshevik revolution, Ludwig von Mises nearly singlehandedly saved civilization by not only destroying Socialism intellectually and providing the clear writing and explanations that became the foundation of future freemarketeers like Hayek-others, but also by politically playing a vital role in slowing the spread of Soviet-like communism throughout Europe (at least Austria). Mises explains how he was able to persuade post World War One Austrian Foreign Minister Otto Bauer away from the Bolshevik Communist-anti-Capitalist fallacies that were so attractive and unstoppable at the time. Had the Austrian domino fallen, could all of Europe and then the rest of the world have followed? Mises recalls:

>"There were few who recognized the state of affairs clearly. People were so convinced of the inevitability of Bolshevism that their main concern was securing a favorable place for themselves in the new order. The Catholic Church and its followers, the Christian Social Party, were prepared to befriend the Bolshevists with the same eagerness with which the bishops and archbishops would embrace National Socialism 20 years later. Bank directors and industrialists hoped to make good livings as managers under the Bolshevists. A certain Mr. Guenther, an industrial consultant to the Bodenkreditanstalt, assured Otto Bauer, in my presence, that he would prefer serving the people to serving a group of stockholders. The effect of this kind of declaration can be appreciated when one understands that this man was considered, although mistakenly, the best industrial manager in Austria." 

>"I knew what was at stake. Bolshevism would lead Vienna to starvation and terror within a few days. Plundering hordes would take to the streets and a second blood bath would destroy what was left of Viennese culture. After discussing these problems with the Bauers over the course of many evenings, I was finally able to persuade them of my view. Bauer's resulting moderation was a determining factor in Vienna's fate."

>"The most important task I undertook...was the forestalling of a Bolshevist takeover. The fact that events did not lead to such a regime in Vienna was my success and mine alone. Few supported me in my efforts...I alone convinced Bauer to abandon the idea of seeking union with Moscow." (Mises, 2009, p. 14,15,62)

Mises' clear writings and explanations catapulted his pupil Hayek to prominence at the London School of Economics in the 1930s. Hayek humbly acknowledges this to his master in a letter:

>“...I am aware, for the first time, that I owe to you virtually everything that gives me an advantage as compared to my colleagues here and to most economists even outside my narrow field of research (here my indebtedness to you goes without saying). In Vienna one is less aware of [this intellectual debt to you] because it is the unquestioned common basis of our circle. If I do not deceive too many expectations of the people here at LSE, it is not to my credit but to yours. However, [my] advantage [over the others] will disappear with your books being translated and becoming generally known… I must tell you this because I here feel more indebted to you than anytime before.” (Hulsmann, 2007, p. 635)


Hayek's classic book "The Road to Serfdom"(1944), but perhaps just as importantly, the brilliantly written 'condensed' version[(only 30ish pages...free)](https://fee-misc.s3.amazonaws.com/files/docLib/20150731_RoadtoSerfdom.pdf) which "Reader's Digest" magazine placed in millions of US homes in 1945, would play a vital role in educating and inspiring future freemarketeers like future British PM Margaret Thatcher, and 3-time presidential candidate Dr. Ron Paul who writes:

>“My introduction to Austrian economics came when I was studying medicine at Duke University and came across a copy of Hayek’s The Road to Serfdom. After devouring this, I was determined to read whatever I could find on what I thought was this new school of economic thought—especially [the works of Mises”](https://cdn.mises.org/Mises%20and%20Austrian%20Economics%20A%20Personal%20View_2.pdf) (Paul, p. 4)



Communism-Socialism-'Central Planning', good intentions and all, attempted to destroy the family and 'private property' and inadvertently destroyed the order that emerged from them and thus itself. As Hayek mentions:

>"Among the founders of religions over the last two thousand years, many opposed property and the family. But the only religions that have survived are those which support property and the family. Thus the outlook for communism, which is both anti-property and anti-family(and also anti-religion), is not promising. For it is, I believe, itself a religion which had its time, and which is now declining rapidly. In communist and socialist countries we are watching how the natural selection of religious beliefs disposes of the maladapted" (Hayek F. A., 1989, p. 137)


In February 25th, 1956, Nikita Khrushchev shook the world by admitting that "the Great Terror", a political witch-hunt that Stalin carried out (1936-38) and led to the execution of about 700,000 people had been based on lies-exaggerations-etc. He had to wait till Stalin's death (1953) to admit this "mistake", however, it was not till 1991 that enough doubt and dissent emerged within the political structure and public in the USSR to finally put an end to the more textbook communist-socialist intellectual error and resulting perverse incentives and relative tyranny that ruled that area since 1918. But the challenge did not end there, how do you get millions of people who have spent generations looking at a single bureaucracy to manage the social order and at least keep them alive to abandon that 'order maker' and trust freedom and competition? Soviet style Socialism and the perverse ideological myths and resulting 'incentive structure' lasted over 70 years. And it still persists today in countries like Cuba, North Korea, and there are Communist Parties with significant support in many countries and increasingly so in the USA.

Once you get the slightly smarter apes chasing their own tails via an ideological and incentive structure that grows government, and increasingly relies on 'Central Bank' money-creation to sustain the wealth-transfers needed to keep the governments-'Central Plans' going, one usually has to wait for it to self-destroy via economic collapse (at the country-group level), Hayek:

>"The ultimate decision about what is accepted as right and wrong will be made not by individual human wisdom but by the disappearance of the groups that have adhered to the "wrong" beliefs."

