
### Cultural Evolution via the emergence of freedom and De-evolution via Socialism.

Having discussed several aspects of the market process like economic competition and interest rates, as well as how 'private property' inadvertently leads to its emergence and civilization, we can now discuss how 'processes of selective evolution' evolved the 'market process'-'Social Organism' without conscious human planning or design. In other words, how vicious tribal slightly smarter apes had their culture-ideologies-software changed from their instinctual 'Law of the Jungle' which they have been practicing for millions of years to civilized commerce, tolerance, and at its very core, respect for private property. We discuss the process that tamed-civilized us, a process that was the result of our actions, but not of our conscious planning, similar to how cells inadvertently created the respiratory, circulatory, nervous, etc. systems that made up multicellular organisms. As Carl Menger asks:

>"How can it be that institutions that serve the common welfare and are extremely significant for its development come into being without a common will directed towards establishing [them?"](https://cdn.mises.org/Investigations%20into%20the%20Method%20of%20the%20Social%20Sciences_5.pdf) 

Hayek answered this monumentally important question via an evolutionary-competitive process that goes more or less as follows. If we envision mankind about 100,000 years ago, we would see a sort of petri-dish of competing cultures(languages-concepts-rules-laws) that are being 'naturally selected' based on their ability to grow the groups that contain them relative to other groups. Customs-concepts-rules-etc. that inadvertently cause their respective social orders to grow whether it'd be via conquest, successful defense, migration into, imitation, etc., will expand their order AND the very customs-concepts-rules-ideologies-etc. which helped them thrive. Every rule-law has an effect in the productivity-growth-survival of a social order. Given that a society-tribe is likely to have dozens of such rules it is impossible to know the exact impact of any one of them when considering the overall competitiveness of a society-order. For simplicity's sake let us focus on just one rule, what is the optimal punishment for theft? In the tribal past a stereotypical tribe might believe in some animal-spirit-god. The very existence-discussion of the concept among members of the tribe, coupled with inevitable dreams which would make such concepts seem real and shared among the tribe, would be enough to greatly solidify such mythology-religion. The shaman sacrifices the virgin and it happened to rain the next day thus making the "science" certain-settled. If the rains didn't come, perhaps she had to be sacrificed facing another direction. Again, what matters is how certain ideas make enough sense to create the 'echo chamber' that leads to them being carried out and propagated. Let's assume that in culture-tribe 'A' when a man steals he is killed which might deter many thefts but decreases the number of people in the group and all the productivity that this person might contribute in the future. In tribe 'B' they cut off a hand, and in tribe 'C' 10 lashes. Let's assume that tribe A's custom-rule of killing the thief actually proved to lead to a "fitter" social order. Perhaps it turns out that cutting off the hand led to an unproductive person that became a big drain on rest of tribe and a weak-useless fighter when it came to offense-defense so it was better if he was dead, and that lashes proved to not be enough of a deterrent which led to many thefts and retaliatory violence which turned out to be more costly than losing a member of the tribe. For simplicity's sake let us assume that this was by far the most important custom-rule affecting the growth-fitness of the social order, and that because of this, tribe-culture 'A' eventually displaced the others so that its kill-thieves rule-custom survived while the other punishments disappeared. The kill-thieves rule, is the result of human action, yet not the result of conscious human planning or design with the reasoned or conscious goal of having a more competitive-fit social order. The real designing of this rule or cultural element was made, not by innate instinct or human reason, but by 'natural selection'-competition-'group selection'-'cultural evolution'.

This concept of 'cultural evolution'-'group selection' allowed Hayek to identify a sort of 'third dimension'-source-mechanism for discovering-spreading knowledge which was neither instinctual (tied to our genetics-biology), nor the result of our conscious reason. As Hayek liked to refer to it, it was a mechanism for creating-spreading information which laid "between instinct and reason" and is the largely unknown-understood source of knowledge that played the vital role in the evolution of the market process and those related social institutions. Consider the following example, omnipresence, the ability to be everywhere at all times is another concept that would provide a great benefit to religions that used it to describe their God. Without God's omnipresence you could get away with breaking the rules that give society order and only have to face the consequences brought upon by fellow men. But if God is everywhere, watching your every move, you will be much more likely to follow those rules that give your society a productive social order. A similar case can be made for the concepts of "sin" and "evil". Did clever men "conspire" to create our religions to control us? Of course not. Like the 'market process', they too "are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design". It could be said that an omnipresent God is one of those culturally evolved-designed concepts that is far more important than anything our "reason" has ever invented, as Hayek writes:

 >"...we may owe to these religions the preservation - admittedly for false reasons - of practices that were more important in enabling man to survive in large numbers than most of what has been accomplished through reason."

These concepts-rules help enforce constraints on what for brevity's sake we'll refer to as our evolved tribalistic('small group')-primate-like nature-instincts-'law of the jungle', which for millions of years were shaped by things like violence, cannibalism, rape, what today would be considered pedophilia, tribal warfare and other practices which are now generally seen as abhorrent and whose relatively recent suppression via culture-religion-law enabled the emergence of the 'Social Organism'-civilization. Growing up is about programming-molding our flexible brains into learning all of these rules and thus rewiring them to be as happy as possible even though many of these restrictions go counter to our 'uncivilized instincts'. We have tentacle porn, Q.E.D. Obviously the molding-brainwashing fails quite often when we engage in rape-torture-militarism-war-"sin" and more. One can easily speculate about how the simplicity and pro-private-property character of Judaism's Ten Commandments ('Thou shalt not steal-murder-'commit adultery'- 'covet(neighbor's…)) and monotheism helped it be more 'viral' and thus be 'naturally selected' over other beliefs-religions that might have been more complex-confusing-contradictory and also be less respectful of private property thus inadvertently foregoing the emergence of the market process and corresponding 'Social Organism'-Civilization.


Knowing that 'private property' is the simple tradition from which emerges a chain-reaction of incentives which creates civilization, we can look at the past and see a sort of petri-dish of inadvertently competing cultures and realize that those cultures whose customs inadvertently became more peaceful and thus less violent, extended peace, friendship, trade to those outside the tribe, etc., in other words, respected "private property" and thus individual liberty more and more, would inadvertently gain the emerging benefits of superior ‘competitive knowledge discovery’, become more technologically advanced-powerful, and as they grew relative to other groups, they would inadvertently spread the very customs and evolving economic system (capitalism) that allowed them to reach such relative heights. This ‘cultural evolution’ happened mostly without the design, intention, or the “reason” of homo sapiens. A great example of this process was the ‘Protestant Reformation’. For centuries the Catholic Church’s traditions held immense coercive-monopoly-competitionless power which prevented or retarded individual freedom and emerging 'competitive knowledge discovery'. In the early 1500s, among other religious reinterpretations, Martin Luther preached that indulgences (payments to the Catholic Church to help one go to heaven) were unnecessary, that a person could go to heaven by believing in Christ without the Catholic Church’s approval, and that the Bible itself, not the Church’s edicts-interpretations was what mattered. This helped reduce the coercive-monopoly power of the Catholic Church and spark a pro-freedom and thus emergent 'competitive knowledge discovery' that would lead to skyrocketing rates of innovation-production-prosperity in Europe-Christendom. Now, very important! Did Martin Luther “reason” that his religious reinterpretations would accelerate 'competitive knowledge discovery' leading to global Capitalism and homo sapiens' recent sky-rocketing prosperity? Of course not! Just like solitary cells millions of years ago inadvertently created the respiratory-circulatory-nervous-etc. “systems” that led to multicellular organisms without "designing them", so is the free-market-Capitalism “indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design” (Adam Ferguson) or as Carl Menger writes, it arose “as the unintended product of historical development.” Hayek elaborates:

>“We have never designed our economic system. We were not intelligent enough for that. We have stumbled into it and it has carried us to unforeseen heights and given rise to ambitions which may yet lead us to destroy it.” (Hayek, 1981, p. 164)


Let us see the same process working further in the past. Due to numerous evolutionary pressures involved (megafauna extinction-etc.), agricultural-grain-bread-based society, although inferior and suddenly out of synch with our evolved big-game-hunter carnivorous biology in terms of nutrition at the individual level, was more conducive to trade, the resulting division of labor-information-competition, and thus a large more productive-powerful social order *at the group level*. Nomadic tribes can't carry around large buildings-granaries, increasingly-complex tools-weapons-etc. Instead of sharing things which was vital for tribal-communist intuitive existence, privatization became more important-productive. The privatization of land-resources-others(slavery)-women-children and accompanying-enforcing myths-taboos-religions began to be naturally selected for. Our very concept of the "self" became more individualistic and less tied to a tribal-communal identity. We went from animalistic promiscuity-gang-bangs(women can have multiple orgasms and enjoy sex for longer uninterrupted periods than men due to sex with multiple males for millions of years), to a stricter and more privatized family structure with the necessary taboos-myths-software needed to enforce them ("...you shall eat bread..." Genesis 3:19, Ten Commandments...). Pre-agricultural man didn't even have a word or linguistic construct for a biological father, this cultural concept-language arose due to the natural selection of agricultural and pastoral societies which benefitted from such privatization, over the tribalistic-hunter-gatherer-communist groups that didn't. Egyptian civilization, although populated by relatively malnourished agrarian people, had an advanced division of labor-commerce, could feed and equip large armies and thus ultimately became one of [modernity's cultural great-grandparents.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bY2v6AnEyuU). 

Rules relating to sex are crucial given the biological importance and potential turmoil relating to it. For example, at some point we developed strong taboos and punishments for sex with animals. For example, the Hebrew Bible mentions:

>"Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put [to death." Exodus 22:18](https://www.mechon-mamre.org/p/pt/pt0222.htm)

>"And thou shalt not lie with any beast to defile thyself therewith; neither shall any woman stand before a beast, to lie down thereto; it [is perversion." Lev. 18:23](https://www.mechon-mamre.org/p/pt/pt0318.htm)

For the Hittites we have:

>"If a man has sexual relations with a cow, it is an unpermitted sexual pairing; he will be put to death"

However,

>"If a man has sexual relations with either a horse or a mule it is not an offense"


The above can help us understand some of the roots of the modern political Left(Darwinian-scientists-irreligious) vs.  Right (religious-tradition) divide. For example, to various degrees the Left tolerates-encourages the human animal in his natural, intuitive, animalistic state and thus attacks the culturally evolved gender roles as the increasingly influential LGBT movement shows, increasingly allows sexual activity by youth at whatever age may arise naturally, and is far more tolerant of things like prostitution. While the Right finds such things as sick perversions. This also helps us understand how the Left-Right mindsets or "identities" see the so-called Jeffrey Epstein scandal where many famous people like Bill Gates and Bill Clinton took many flights to the property where Epstein organized sexual relations between young women and visitors. Today's intellectual and political leaders are not religious and tend to be Darwinians and see little wrong with having sex with 13 year olds as was the case just a few centuries ago and even more so 50,000 years ago, so little effort to apply the law exists, especially when so many of today's leading figures seem to have participated. This also helps us understand the 'Balenciaga' clothing brand 'scandal' where adds by the brand implying a certain potential tolerance of sexual acts by minors created a storm of controversy. Again, an increasingly Darwinian mindset by an increasing number of thought-policy-intellectual leaders is moving in this direction causing a cultural war, especially as each group uses government force to coerce each other with its views.

By the late 1700s, the bewildering complexity of modern cities coupled with, per above, man not having the slightest clue how the "competitive knowledge discovery" that creates civilization “emerges” from “private property” and thus personal liberty since this amazing mechanism had been designed, not by clever men, but by an evolutionary process we didn’t even really understand at the time, homo sapiens understandably fell for all the usual anti-Capitalist, pro-Socialist-Nationalist central planning-tribal fallacies which still dominate popular thinking to this day. 

For example, Saint-Simon(1760-1825), the founder of French Socialism, wanted to organize a great “Council of Newton” made up of “three mathematicians, three physicists, three chemists, three physiologists, three authors, three painters and three musicians” who would then use their supposedly superior genius to tell everyone else what to do. Saint-Simon explains:

>“All men will work; they will regard themselves as laborers attached to one workshop whose efforts will be directed to guide human intelligence according to my divine foresight. The supreme Council of Newtown will [direct their works”](https://archive.org/stream/counterrevolutio030197mbp/counterrevolutio030197mbp_djvu.txt)

Hayek comments that:

>“Saint-Simon has no qualms about the means that will be employed to enforce the instructions of his central planning body: “Anybody who does not obey the orders will be treated by the others as a quadruped” ” [(Hayek F. A., 1979, pp. 221-2)](https://archive.org/stream/counterrevolutio030197mbp/counterrevolutio030197mbp_djvu.txt)

Hayek again referring to men in general:

>"To them the market economy is largely incomprehensible;... and its results seem to them irrational and immoral. They often see in it merely an arbitrary structure maintained by some sinister power.” (Hayek F. A., 1981, pp. 164-5)
 
Who is that 'sinister power'? Each group of economically ignorant homo sapiens depending on their history and numerous circumstances mistakenly identifies a different boogeyman. Since the recent and rapid evolution of 'the market process'-Capitalism occurred in Europe, understandably so for much of the third world and non-whites, it is "the white man" and his "exploitative Capitalism" and-or "racism". There is of course, the "evil corporations", "the rich-CEOs", "greed", "sexism", "minorities", "immigrants", "the Jews", etc. It is as if we are fooled into believing that just because the social order is the result of human action, that our problems are likewise the result of conscious planning or design or plotting by fellow slightly smarter apes. They are not. They are overwhelmingly the result of economic ignorance.

The inadvertent emergence of freedom and resulting 'competitive knowledge discovery' in Europe had given the whiter-looking homo sapiens a relative technological advantage, which they understandably mistakenly attributed to their "race" and also religion which justified their Imperialism. As Herbert Spencer angrily laments in 1898:

>"Now that the white savages of Europe are overrunning the dark savages everywhere — now that the European nations are vying with one another in political burglaries — now that we have entered upon an era of social cannibalism in which the strong nations are devouring the weaker... it is useless to resist the wave of barbarism. There is a bad time coming, and civilized mankind will (morally) be uncivilized before civilization [can again advance."(17 July, 1898)](https://archive.org/stream/b29012193/b29012193_djvu.txt)

By the early 1900s viral economic fallacies and their socialist-statist-(central-monopoly planning) ideological result had gripped much of the western world’s intellectuals and public. Mises writes:

>"By 1900 practically everyone in the German-speaking countries was either a statist (interventionist) or a state socialist. Capitalism was seen as a bad episode which fortunately had ended forever. The future belonged to the “State.” All enterprises suitable for expropriation were to be taken over by the state. All others were to be regulated in a way that would prevent businessmen from exploiting workers and consumers…When I entered the university, [I, too, was a thorough statist."](https://books.google.com/books?id=it9c6z4bw_8C&pg=PA79&lpg=PA79&dq=%22When+I+entered+the+university,+I,+too,+was+a+thorough+statist%22&source=bl&ots=w7tJ43ISAj&sig=ACfU3U25jZ_hfdZNRCe7ZwW4BAdfeq9_Kg&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwi03rH_48TuAhXSt1kKHWPRCn0Q6AEwAXoECAYQAg#v=onepage&q=%22When%20I%20entered%20the%20university%2C%20I%2C%20too%2C%20was%20a%20thorough%20statist%22&f=false) (Hullsman, p. 79)

The recent success of the physical sciences, as well as Darwin's theory of evolution, led to a rapidly evolving sort of "Priesthood of Scientism" which saw religion and its traditions of "private property" and family as something backward and a tool of the growing business-Capitalist-"Bourgeoisie" class. Just like complex environmental factors create selective pressures that favor the spread of certain genes, the environment was ripe for the emergence of a new religion-mythology, Socialism-Communism-Scientism-'Coercive Competition-immune Central Planning by Experts'-Statism. Eventually some slightly smarter ape would describe these increasingly popular fallacies-myths in a manner that was bound to go viral and that is what happened with Karl Marx and his bite-sized 'Communist Manifesto':

>"the theory of the Communists may be summed up in the single sentence: Abolition of private property"...."Abolition of the family!" 

To engineer society or attempt to improve it via government or 'Central Planning' one inevitably has to curb the freedom of the individual in order to implement the social engineer-government’s plans. As Adam Smith said with respect to the ‘social engineer’-leader-politician or what he refers to as “the man of system”:

>“The man of system, on the contrary, is apt to be very wise in his own conceit; and is often so enamoured with the supposed beauty of his own ideal plan of government, that he cannot suffer the smallest deviation from any part of it. He goes on to establish it completely and in all its parts, without any regard either to the great interests, or to the strong prejudices which may oppose it. He seems to imagine that he can arrange the different members of a great society with as much ease as the hand arranges the different pieces upon a chess-board. He does not consider that the pieces upon the chess-board have no other principle of motion besides that which the hand impresses upon them; but that, in the great chess-board of human society, every single piece has a principle of motion of its own, altogether different from that which the legislature might chuse to impress upon it. If those two principles coincide and act in the same direction, the game of human society will go on easily and harmoniously, and is very likely to be happy and successful. If they are opposite or different, the game will go on miserably, and the society must be at all times in the highest degree of disorder.” (Smith, p. VI.II.42)


#### Cultural, not Biological Evolution is the key.

We must stress the fact that the cultural evolutionary process which has created 'the market process' is much, much faster than the slow genetic biological evolution thus rendering slight genetic differences between races-populations largely irrelevant. As Hayek tells us:

>"With respect to what we mean by cultural evolution in a narrower sense, that is, the fast and accelerating development of civilization…Since it differs from genetic evolution by relying on the transmission of acquired properties, it is very fast, and once it dominates, it swamps genetic evolution" [(Hayek "Law, Legislation and Liberty, Volume 3: The Political Order of a Free People" 1981, p. 156)](https://books.google.com/books?id=9IpEBAAAQBAJ&pg=PA489&lpg=PA489&dq=%22With+respect+to+what+we+mean+by+cultural+evolution+in+a+narrower+sense,+that+is,+the+fast+and+accelerating%22&source=bl&ots=unmroxTPbu&sig=ACfU3U1hRwunoRJDJ9cd_DAAu0YcZ-uEoA&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjZkY6Hw_jmAhWBMX0KHbatDF4Q6AEwAHoECAYQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22With%20respect%20to%20what%20we%20mean%20by%20cultural%20evolution%20in%20a%20narrower%20sense%2C%20that%20is%2C%20the%20fast%20and%20accelerating%22&f=false)

Also:

>"…biological evolution would have been far too slow to alter or replace man's innate responses in the course of the ten or twenty thousand years during which civilisation has developed…. Thus it hardly seems possible that civilisation and culture are genetically determined and transmitted. They have to be learnt by all alike through tradition." (Hayek's 'The Fatal Conceit' page 16)

As numerous great free-market thinkers like Mises, [Robert Higgs](https://mises.org/library/rise-west), and [Ralph Raico](https://mises.org/library/european-miracle-0) just to name a few have shown, during the last couple thousand years different groups of people in widely dispersed locations like, the Middle East, Asia, and Europe, traded the sort of title for most socioeconomically advanced places in the planet. Mises makes this point and criticizes people who focus on race:

>"But it is by all means an unsatisfactory answer to say that a genius owes his greatness to his ancestry or to his race. The question is precisely why such a man differs from his brothers and from the other members of his race. It is a little bit less faulty to attribute the great achievements of the white race to racial superiority. Yet this is no more than vague hypothesis which is at variance with the fact that the early foundations of civilization were laid by peoples of other races. We cannot know whether or not at a later date other races will [supplant Western civilization."](https://mises.org/library/human-action-0/html/pp/661)

With respect to the momentary lead in terms of civilization that China had, and the real reason why whites-Europeans had a recent relative lead, Hayek writes:

>"…the history of China provides many instances of government attempts to enforce so perfect an order that innovation became impossible. This country, technologically and scientifically developed so far ahead of Europe that, to give only one illustration, it had ten oil wells operating on one stretch of the river Po already in the twelfth century, certainly owed its later stagnation, but not its early progress, to the manipulatory power of its governments. What led the greatly advanced civilisation of China to fall behind Europe was its government's clamping down so tightly as to leave no room for new developments, while, as remarked in the last chapter, Europe probably owes its extraordinary expansion in the Middle Ages to its political anarchy" [(Hayek's 'The Fatal Conceit' page 44)](https://books.google.com/books?id=YQLYAQAAQBAJ&pg=PA45&lpg=PA45&dq=%22Europe+probably+owes+its+extraordinary+expansion+in+the+Middle+Ages+to+its+political+anarchy%22&source=bl&ots=OdrpACuIRZ&sig=ACfU3U0bJQJuY3PuMN0tExE9cXiIi_mO7Q&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjH94Xs5fDoAhW8knIEHWHYBS4Q6AEwBHoECAsQOA#v=onepage&q=%22Europe%20probably%20owes%20its%20extraordinary%20expansion%20in%20the%20Middle%20Ages%20to%20its%20political%20anarchy%22&f=false)




#### Lenin's Bolshevik Revolution.

We now reach the end of World War One (1918) when Vladimir Lenin begins to take control of Russia and attempts to bring about Socialism-Communism in what became the Soviet Union(1922). Lenin was "the man of system". As he tried hard to give a more "just", "equal", or "rational" order to the Russian people via government planning as opposed to letting the market process and individual economic freedom do so, he acknowledged and said the following, which seems like the perfect and unfortunate compliment to Adam Smith's recent quote-wisdom:

>"The machine refused to obey the hand that guided it. It was like a car that was going not in the direction the driver desired, but in the direction someone else desired; as if it were being driven by some mysterious, lawless hand, God knows whose, perhaps of a profiteer, or of a private capitalist, or of both. Be that as it may, the car is not going quite in the direction that the man at the wheel imagines, and often goes in an altogether different direction." (Lenin)

Lenin, as well as most people, believed that ["the key feature is people, the proper choice of people"](https://www.marxists.org/archive/lenin/works/1922/mar/27.htm), and if we could just have the right people-experts-'Great Leaders' with the right values government-central management would work. But Lenin was wrong of course, it is not so much the individual cells-people that matter, it is the system, it is freedom and its emergent competitive knowledge and socioeconomic order spreading mechanisms. It makes perfect sense how a bunch of economically clueless slightly smarter apes would go wild looking for and pledging support to the ape they feel has the right personal qualities (courage, honesty, intelligence, toughness, etc.) and coercing everyone to go along with the "master plans" while being totally ignorant of the need to discover the time-and-place information and incentives that can actually order mankind profitably (again, a manner-cycle in which more order-wealth is produced than consumed). The public not only believes that we need a benevolent dictator; the system naturally selects him for us. A confident fool will sway more minds than a doubtful and considerate genius. It is the man who thoroughly believes that he has the right “master plan” and great group of friends, that carries himself with the needed confidence to sway and inspire the public. As Bertrand Russell put it “The trouble with the world is that the stupid are cocksure and the intelligent are full of doubt.”

Lenin was a "great leader" who had the "strength" to carry out his vision. An example of one of the orders he was sending to various cities-districts to deal with farmers (kulaks) who were rebelling against the grain requisitions went as follows:

>“Comrades! The kulak uprising in your five districts must be crushed without pity. The interests of the whole revolution demand such actions, for the final struggle with the kulaks has now begun. You must make an example of these people. (1) Hang (I mean hang publicly, so that people see it) at least 100 kulaks, rich bastards, and known blood-suckers. (2) Publish their names. (3) Seize all their grain. (4) Single out the hostages per my instructions in yesterday’s telegram. Do all this so that for miles around people see it all. Understand it, tremble, and tell themselves that we are killing the bloodthirsty kulaks and that we will continue to do so. Reply saying you have received and carried out these instructions. Yours, Lenin. P.S. Find tougher people.” (Panne, et al., p. 72)"

The unproductive chaos-tyranny that Lenin was creating inevitably brought a gigantic famine that would claim about 5 million lives in 1921 and 1922. Fortunately other Bolshevik leaders helped Lenin accept relief from international organizations like the Red Cross, the Quakers, and future US President Herbert Hoover’s American Relief Association whose combined efforts fed a whopping 11 million people each day. Lenin’s anti-market thus anti-production and thus anti-life-order government-control-measures where such a disaster that by 1921 Lenin scaled some of it back in what was called the NEP (New Economic Policy). The NEP essentially reintroduced some levels of private property-enterprise, especially for farmers-kulaks, which immediately led to a better functioning of the market process and substantial increases in food production.


It is important that we see Communism-'Central Planning' and Lenin's Bolshevik Revolution and other Socialist-Communist uprisings which dominated the 20th century, as well as all of our socioeconomic problems since they are all caused by competitionless-coercive-central-planning, as an almost inevitable spread of viral self-reinforcing economic fallacies and incentives that were just bound to finally spark in truly sustainable reactions. A young idealistic Russian could worry about how to make a good living in the always-uncertain and competitive private sector, or by joining Lenin and his Socialist Bolsheviks(government) he could become a hero to mankind by just forcing farmers-others to give up (share) their grain-wealth to feed a bureaucracy-monopoly of "experts" who would plan an allegedly superior order. Sign me up! We must focus on how the ideas arise and spread and create intellectual 'echo chambers' and 'incentive structures' that lead the slightly smarter apes into either carnage or civilization. 

We should also highlight the fact that ideologues ultimately stumble upon the realization that in order to carry out their wonderful plans, they must either coerce the public directly via edicts, force, direct taxes or regulations, or, even better, simply control the central banks. It becomes a lot easier to spread your ideology and create an 'incentive structure' where most people go along with your wonderful ideas when you can create the money and assure the public that you can provide the money-wealth they need. The money=wealth mass-fallacy-myth easily causes the slightly smarter apes to totally self-destroy as 1) It allows transfers of wealth from the productive private sector to the centrally-planned inefficiently ordered bureaucracies which will consume more than they produce thus destroying social order 2) It easily motivates the masses to peacefully fool themselves and even clamor for such an ultimately disastrous rearrangement. Again, we just have to remember Alan and his castle. The masses go from fear and uncertainty to the comfort of working towards the 'master plan' and see how they are getting the money they foolishly equate with wealth. We can easily see the inadvertent evolution of this process in our modern world where what increasingly matters to politicians-ideologues-masses is who will appoint or control the technocrats who run the 'central banks'-'Federal Reserve' and will thus be able to keep creating money-"stimulus" to take wealth from the private sector to seemingly accomplish anything  (Green New Deal, free education and healthcare, 'racial equality', battle the evil-doers, visit gatesnotes.com for an up-to-date list of all potential 'social problems' and how Bill and Melinda Gates have a 'master plan' to solve each). This is essentially what the latest monkey-economics Modern Monetary Theory is all about. It is just continuous money-creation-taxation by central bank ideologues-technocrats. Regarding this disastrous myth of using money-creation-"inflationism" to manage society, something that the slightly smarter apes understandably repeatedly fall for, Hayek writes:

>"I do not think it is an exaggeration to say history is largely a history of inflation, usually inflations engineered by governments for the gain of governments."

>"Inflation is probably the most important single factor in that vicious circle wherein one kind of government action makes more and more government control necessary. For this reason all those who wish to stop the drift toward increasing government control should concentrate their effort on monetary policy." (Hayek, 1978)

Mises:

>"Inflation is the fiscal complement of statism and arbitrary government. It is a cog in the complex of policies and institutions which gradually lead toward totalitarianism."

A gold standard (or crypto these days perhaps) makes "inflationism" impossible thus helping keep wealth with the peaceful and productive private sector and away from tribalistic apes and their clueless Socialism and militarism.

>"Inflationism, however, is not an isolated phenomenon. It is only one piece in the total framework of politico-economic and socio-philosophical ideas of our time. Just as the sound money policy of gold standard advocates went hand in hand with liberalism, free trade, capitalism and peace, so is inflationism part and parcel of imperialism, militarism, protectionism, statism and socialism." (Mises, 2006, p. 43)


A family structure has been important for keeping the peace and other things, and obviously respect for private property is what *'the market process'*, *'competitive knowledge discovery'*, and the entire social order emerges from. Communism-Socialism, good intentions and all, destroyed these two and inadvertently destroyed the order that emerged from them-itself. As Hayek mentions:

>"Among the founders of religions over the last two thousand years, many opposed property and the family. But the only religions that have survived are those which support property and the family. Thus the outlook for communism, which is both anti-property and anti-family(and also anti-religion), is not promising. For it is, I believe, itself a religion which had its time, and which is now declining rapidly. In communist and socialist countries we are watching how the natural selection of religious beliefs disposes of the maladapted" (Hayek F. A., 1989, p. 137)

In February 25th, 1956, Nikita Khrushchev shook the world by admitting that "the Great Terror", a political witch-hunt that Stalin carried out (1936-38) and led to the execution of about 700,000 people had been based on lies-exaggerations-etc. He had to wait till Stalin's death (1953) to admit this "mistake", however, it was not till 1991 that enough doubt and dissent emerged within the political structure and public in the USSR to finally put an end to the more textbook communist-socialist intellectual error and resulting perverse incentives and relative tyranny that ruled that area since 1918. Obviously immense praise should be given to Mikhail Gorbachev for admitting that the Communist ideology had been a massive failure-error. But the challenge did not end there, how do you get millions of people who have spent generations looking at a single bureaucracy to manage the social order and at least keep them alive to abandon that 'order maker' and trust freedom and competition? Soviet style Socialism and the perverse ideological myths and resulting 'incentive structure' lasted over 70 years. And it still persists today in countries like Cuba, North Korea, and there are Communist Parties with significant support in many countries and increasingly so in the USA.

Once you get the slightly smarter apes chasing their own tails via an ideological and incentive structure that grows government, and increasingly relies on 'Central Bank' money-creation to sustain the wealth-transfers needed to keep the governments-'Central Plans' going, one usually has to wait for it to self-destroy via economic collapse (at the country-group level) per Hayek's earlier quote:

>"The ultimate decision about what is accepted as right and wrong will be made not by individual human wisdom but by the disappearance of the groups that have adhered to the "wrong" beliefs."



#### Central Planning in Science. The Soviet Union's Trofim Lysenko.


The Soviet Union's rule by competition-immune "monopoly of experts-scientists" had disastrous consequences for scientific research as well. We are fooled into believing that it is "scientists" that make our wonderful innovations, but it is not "scientists" per se, but competition which requires freedom of course, something the Soviet Union lacked leading to massive competition-immune bureaucracies that evolved to fight change-discoveries and warp science-research in political-ideological ways. A particularly disastrous "scientist" who rose to the top in the 1930s was [Trofim Lysenko](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trofim_Lysenko) who led a campaign against the growing field of genetics, had many other [scientists-critics persecuted-killed](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2017/12/trofim-lysenko-soviet-union-russia/548786/) and whose competition-immune theories related to farming led to millions of deaths via crop failures both in Russia, and later in China helping lead to the Great Chinese Famine which [claimed 15-55 million lives.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_Chinese_Famine#Extent_of_the_famine). Being a favorite of Stalin and also on good terms with his successor Nikita Khrushchev it wasn't until Khrushchev's downfall in 1963 that Lysenko was thoroughly discredited. From [his wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trofim_Lysenko):

>"In 1964, physicist [Andrei Sakharov](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrei_Sakharov) spoke out against Lysenko in the General Assembly of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR:

>>"He is responsible for the shameful backwardness of Soviet biology and of genetics in particular, for the dissemination of pseudo-scientific views, for adventurism, for the degradation of learning, and for the defamation, firing, arrest, even death, of many [genuine scientists.""](http://www.learntoquestion.com/seevak/groups/2003/sites/sakharov/AS/biography/dissent.html)


Among the numerous things to learn from the Soviet and similar disasters is the fact that it is understandably difficult for ideologues like Lenin and his governmental structure ('echo chamber' of 'experts' and 'incentive structure' since they are wholly dependent on wealth taken by force from the masses) to change their minds since not only do they have to admit to error but also realize that they have caused unimaginable suffering. This is just the kind of stuff the slightly smarter apes don't do that often. The 'echo chambers' just intensify and get more negligent. The incentives are to look the other way, or place the blame elsewhere. Even though Lenin was becoming aware of the chaos he was causing, he understandably had incentives to look for other causes, like saboteurs, the rich-'capitalist exploiters', the religious-church who did not want to relinquish power-authority etc. It was his economic policies that were intensifying the misery, but he would just double-down further intensifying it. In the private sector, investors and entrepreneurs suffer loses forcing them to change course quickly regardless of how negligent they may be. This does not happen in any government-finance structure which is the main reason why so many "widely held by false beliefs", myths, persist. The great economist and historian Thomas Sowell twitted April in 2020:

>"People will forgive you for being wrong, but they will never forgive you for being right—especially if events prove you right while proving them wrong."

And a related quote by famed phycisist Max Plank:

>“A new scientific truth does not triumph by convincing its opponents and making them see the light, but rather because its opponents eventually die, and a new generation grows up that is familiar with it.”

Bottom line, there is an understandable 'echo chamber' of NEGLIGENCE that causes new ideas to spread slowly as the always proudful apes have to admit to being wrong and also losing their paychecks. And government sustained coercion and transfers of wealth, especially when done sneakily via inflation prevents the correction or busting of myths.



#### The Collapse of the Soviet Union and How The ‘Austrian School’ Economists Saved Civilization Via Mises' Efforts and The Publication Of F.A. Hayek’s ‘The Road To Serfdom’


Even though plenty of people knew Communism would bring about unimaginable suffering, the rate at which the economic ignorance-fallacies and perverse incentives appealed to the tribalistic smarter apes was much faster than the rate at which proper arguments against it could spread. One could say that the definitive knockout blow that proved the impossibility of central planning did not even exist until Ludwig von Mises wrote his ["Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth"](https://mises.org/library/economic-calculation-socialist-commonwealth) in 1920, far away and in a foreign language. Without sound economic arguments which were also brief enough to be somewhat viral much of mankind was doomed. The religious traditions of looking at the world's problems as the result of "good" vs. "evil" did not work with the atheistic Socialists-Communists who thanks to scientific progress-Darwin could easily discard deity-based arguments, in other words, mankind was stuck in what Mises referred to as "the moral sphere". Although within the context of economics, the following quote from Mises applies to all of mankind's problems. In just two consecutive paragraphs Mises does away with the "they are evil" fallacy, and the "they are mad" fallacy:

>"The problems involved are purely intellectual and must be dealt with as such. It is disastrous to shift them to the moral sphere and to dispose of supporters of opposite ideologies by calling them villains. It is vain to insist that what we are aiming at is good and what our adversaries want is bad. The question to be solved is precisely what is to be considered as good and what as bad. The rigid dogmatism peculiar to religious groups and to Marxism results only in irreconcilable conflict. It condemns beforehand all dissenters as evildoers, it calls into question their good faith, it asks them to surrender unconditionally. No social cooperation is possible where such an attitude prevails.

>No better is the propensity, very popular nowadays, to brand supporters of other ideologies as lunatics. Psychiatrists are vague in drawing a line between sanity and insanity. It would be preposterous for laymen to interfere with this fundamental issue of psychiatry. However, it is clear that if the mere fact that a man shares erroneous views and acts according to his errors qualifies him as mentally disabled, it would be very hard to discover an individual to which the epithet sane or normal could be attributed. Then we are bound to call the past generations lunatic because their ideas about the problems of the natural sciences and concomitantly their techniques differed from ours. Coming generations will call us lunatics for the same reason. Man is liable to error. If to err were the characteristic feature of mental disability, then everybody should be called mentally disabled." [(Mises, 1998)](https://mises.org/library/human-action-0/html/pp/714)


Thus the ideological battle between the atheistic-"scientific" anti-(religion-tradition) 'central planning by experts' viral fallacies and inherited religious traditions and existing order continued, with religion, private property, and thus humanity, suffering immensely. In the period between 1927 and 1940, the number of Orthodox Churches in the Soviet Union fell from 29,584 to less than 500. The Soviet Union’s anti-religion purges were equal-opportunity, in 1917 there were over 20,000 Islamic mosques in the Soviet Union, by 1935 there would be less than 60. Thousands of priests would stick to their faith and quickly be shot. The atheistic nature of the Soviet Union obviously played a role in making it so much easier to discard human life and thus tremendously deadlier. 

As Socialist economic fallacies were rapidly spreading across Europe via Lenin's Bolshevik revolution, Ludwig von Mises nearly singlehandedly saved civilization by not only destroying Socialism intellectually and providing the clear writing and explanations that became the foundation of future freemarketeers like Hayek-others, but also by politically playing a vital role in slowing the spread of Soviet-like communism throughout Europe (at least Austria). Mises explains how he was able to persuade post World War One Austrian Foreign Minister Otto Bauer away from the Bolshevik Communist-anti-Capitalist fallacies that were so attractive and unstoppable at the time. Had the Austrian domino fallen, could all of Europe and then the rest of the world have followed? Mises recalls:

>"There were few who recognized the state of affairs clearly. People were so convinced of the inevitability of Bolshevism that their main concern was securing a favorable place for themselves in the new order. The Catholic Church and its followers, the Christian Social Party, were prepared to befriend the Bolshevists with the same eagerness with which the bishops and archbishops would embrace National Socialism 20 years later. Bank directors and industrialists hoped to make good livings as managers under the Bolshevists. A certain Mr. Guenther, an industrial consultant to the Bodenkreditanstalt, assured Otto Bauer, in my presence, that he would prefer serving the people to serving a group of stockholders. The effect of this kind of declaration can be appreciated when one understands that this man was considered, although mistakenly, the best industrial manager in Austria." 

>"I knew what was at stake. Bolshevism would lead Vienna to starvation and terror within a few days. Plundering hordes would take to the streets and a second blood bath would destroy what was left of Viennese culture. After discussing these problems with the Bauers over the course of many evenings, I was finally able to persuade them of my view. Bauer's resulting moderation was a determining factor in Vienna's fate."

>"The most important task I undertook...was the forestalling of a Bolshevist takeover. The fact that events did not lead to such a regime in Vienna was my success and mine alone. Few supported me in my efforts...I alone convinced Bauer to abandon the idea of seeking union with Moscow." (Mises, 2009, p. 14,15,62)

Mises' clear writings and explanations catapulted his pupil Hayek to prominence at the London School of Economics in the 1930s. Hayek humbly acknowledges this to his master in a letter:

>“...I am aware, for the first time, that I owe to you virtually everything that gives me an advantage as compared to my colleagues here and to most economists even outside my narrow field of research (here my indebtedness to you goes without saying). In Vienna one is less aware of [this intellectual debt to you] because it is the unquestioned common basis of our circle. If I do not deceive too many expectations of the people here at LSE, it is not to my credit but to yours. However, [my] advantage [over the others] will disappear with your books being translated and becoming generally known… I must tell you this because I here feel more indebted to you than anytime before.” (Hulsmann, 2007, p. 635)


In September 1944, as World War Two was still raging, Hayek published a book where he tried to show how the same economic fallacies that led to Socialism of the German and Soviet style, also increasingly dominated the thinking of the freer democracies like England, and would inevitably lead to, as his book was titled, "The Road To Serfdom". Properly identifying socialist ideology as an understandable error, he dedicated the book ‘to socialists of all parties’. Fellow freemarketeer and disciple of Mises, Henry Hazlitt, who was working at 'The New York Times' loved the book, wrote a glowing review which began as “In “The Road to Serfdom” Friedrich A. Hayek has written one of the most important books of our generation.” And had the review placed in the front page on The Times’ Book Review Section. The book became an instant sensation among The Times’ book readers. However, at over 250 pages its wisdom remained less accessible to a mass audience. Enter Max Eastman. Max Eastman had been one of America’s most prominent Socialists. He had traveled to the Soviet Union, befriended men like Leon Trotsky and even translated several of his works into English. But eventually the inevitable economic chaos and tyranny of Socialism led him to stumble upon the writings of Mises and Hayek, made an intellectual 180 and became a passionate defender of freedom-Capitalism. Max’s monumental contribution came when he created a brilliantly written [‘condensed’ version of Hayek’s book which was less than 40 pages](https://fee-misc.s3.amazonaws.com/files/docLib/20150731_RoadtoSerfdom.pdf), which with the help of The Reader’s Digest magazine where he worked was eventually sold to over one million American homes. By the time Hayek came to the US in April 1945 to go on a speaking tour, instead of giving small talks at university departments, his first event “drew an overflow crowd of more than 3,000 listeners and was broadcast [over the radio.”](https://press.uchicago.edu/Misc/Chicago/320553.html)

Hayek’s book and Eastman’s condensation were a great antidote to Marx’s short and viral ‘Communist Manifesto’. Instead of inspiring Socialist ideologues, it inspired freedom ones like Margaret Thatcher who read the book while an 18-year-old undergraduate at Oxford, and countless others like 3-time presidential candidate Dr. Ron Paul who writes:

>“My introduction to Austrian economics came when I was studying medicine at Duke University and came across a copy of Hayek’s The Road to Serfdom. After devouring this, I was determined to read whatever I could find on what I thought was this new school of economic thought—especially [the works of Mises”](https://cdn.mises.org/Mises%20and%20Austrian%20Economics%20A%20Personal%20View_2.pdf) (Paul, p. 4)


There are countless things we can learn from these men’s achievements. They had a laser-like focus on the very root of mankind’s problems. The economic ignorance that leads to the massive-coercive-competition-immune governments and resulting calamities. They believed that the public and average citizens could and should understand basic economics. As Mises writes:

>“Economics deals with society’s fundamental problems; it concerns everyone and belongs to all. It is the main and proper study of every citizen.”

Without this belief, the effort to educate would not exist so the government-created calamities would continue and as Mises tells us “then there is no hope left for mankind’s future.”

Remember Sowell? “People will forgive you for being wrong, but they will never forgive you for being right—especially if events prove you right while proving them wrong.” People, especially “intellectuals” whose sense of identity, self-worth, and oftentimes paycheck since many work for the government, are soo deeply tied to the ideas they preach, that most are extremely negligent or hostile to superior ideas, thus causing the ideas to move very slowly. Here Max Eastman provides a great example of someone who was about as disastrously wrong as one can be and devoted much of his life to an error, and completely turn it around in a spectacular way. As dangerous and malicious as some popular politicians and ideologues can become, they focused, not on ill intent or malice by politicians or ideologues, but on economic ignorance and misunderstandings. Hayek elaborates:

>“When I stressed that is genuine intellectual error that we have to fight, what I meant to bring out is that we ought to remain aware that our opponents are often high-minded idealists whose harmful teachings are inspired by very noble ideals. It seems to me that the worst mistake a fighter for our ideals can make is to ascribe to our opponents dishonest or immoral aims.

>I know it is sometimes difficult not to be irritated into a feeling that most of them are a bunch of irresponsible demagogues who ought to know better. But though many of the followers of what we regard as the wrong prophets are neither just plain silly, or merely mischievous troublemakers, we ought to realise that their conceptions derive from serious thinkers whose ultimate ideals are not so very different from our own and with whom we differ not so much on ultimate values, but on the effective means of achieving them.

>I am indeed profoundly convinced that there is much less difference between us and our opponents on the ultimate values to be achieved than is commonly believed, and that the differences between us are chiefly intellectual differences. We at least believe that we have attained an understanding of the forces which have shaped civilisation which our opponents lack. Yet if we have not yet convinced them, the reason must be that our arguments are not yet quite good enough, that we have not yet made explicit some of the foundations on which our conclusions rest. Our chief task therefore must still be to improve the argument on which our case for a free society rests.”


No matter how bad things get, just a few determined people focused on spreading the right ideas can save civilization as these men did. We obviously need a repeat.
