


## Introduction, Part I.

What's with the title? Why single out celebrities, blacks and Jews? Have you looked out the window lately given all the hoola regarding KanYE West, the never-ending Jew-Gentile problems and 'antisemitism'? Although all human beings are just fellow homo sapiens, complex cultural and historical factors have led to "identities" which causes many homo sapiens to see each other as groups and that has important ramifications for how they see the world, interact with others, and what they see as the key to prosperity. Let's say a few things about each group.

### Blacks.

Blacks, who find themselves relatively poorer and less educated, given the history of slavery at the hands of "whites", "discrimination" by a surrounding larger majority of non-blacks to various degrees, and many other complex factors, understandably find themselves in an environment where government provided services seem like a good and fair idea. This easily helps us understand why most prominent black leaders instead of supporting free market Capitalism, where the social order is managed by free entrepreneurs and private sector companies which have to innovate and learn from each other(competitors), they support some kind of Socialism where well intentioned government "experts" manage society. They understandably feel like freedom allows or tolerates racism, and leads to various forms of "exploitation", and thus we must have a powerful government of "experts" manage or influence things to various degrees. Let's quote some prominent black leaders:

Martin Luther King mentions: 

>"we are saying that something is wrong… with capitalism….There must be a better distribution of wealth and maybe America must move toward a Democratic Socialism."

Malcolm X sent a letter to then President Truman letting him know that “I have always been a communist."

South Africa’s Nelson Mandela who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1993 was also a Socialist ideologue. In a statement at the beginning of the trial that would send him to jail for 27 years he said:

>“We all accept the need for some form of socialism to enable our people to catch up with the advanced countries of this world and to overcome their legacy of extreme poverty...I should tie myself to no particular system of society other than of socialism.”

The Black Lives Matter organization which has been taken to almost religious-like reverence by so many well-meaning white people is also understandably an economically ignorant communist-socialist-marxist organization. Black lives matter founder Patrisse Cullors mentioned that "we're trained Marxists".

The need for the Catholic Church to rule society in the past could be seen as a myth, in other words, as "a widely held by false belief" which fooled many bright and caring people into what most of us today consider unnecessary coercion and restrictions. Socialism-Communism was also a myth that fooled many bright and caring people leading to many horrible Communist regimes in the 20th century like the former Soviet Union and Nazi (National *Socialist*) Germany. The idea that racism plays a significant economic factor in the lives of blacks is also another myth which understandably misleads the thinking of many blacks and "minorities" and also the whites which want to help. Many whites, with the best of intentions, might be ashamed of the imperialist past of their ancestors or of the racism of their parents-uncles-friends-etc. or their own "shameful" preference for perhaps blue-eyed blondes and erroneously believe in the myth that such a past-racism-preference is a significant factor in the relative underachievement or problems of other groups-minorities-blacks. A well intentioned economically ignorant person can easily find some "racist CEO" who discriminates based on race and "voilà! this racism is the root of the problems!". This sort of collective sense of guilt which is so pervasive among many whites is what allows Black Lives Matter rioters to riot virtually unopposed. Economic ignorance leads both blacks and whites to increasingly see whatever racism might exist as an increasingly significant problem to fix, via massive government-monopoly-coercion of course, as can be seen by today's Democratic party's prominent focus on 'racial justice'. The level of ignorance and anti-white-male-hate that now dominates the Biden administration and American Democratic Party was nicely summarized by popular congresswoman from New York, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, when she mentioned in 1/14/2021:

>"The Republican Party...They don't give a damn about the law. They don't give a damn about order. They don't give a damn about safety. They give a damn about white supremacy. They care about preserving the social order and the mythology of whiteness....They lust for power more than they care about democracy."

Many whites are well aware of and resentful of the fact that since they make more money, they pay more taxes, and eventually have their wealth taken from them to sustain government programs which they dislike and black people vote for so this understandably leads to increased polarization and eventual political-social chaos. 

### Jews.

Next let's say a few things about the vital need for Jews to properly understand economics. "Antisemitism" is obviously a big deal for Jews and rightly so. Naive thinkers, sometimes quite dangerous, blame "The Jews" for all kinds of things, from killing Jesus, to "plotting" "Capitalism" as well as "Communism", for the Black Plague, you name it. Jews have understandably been the scapegoats for countless things man just did not understand in our more mythical past. Since supposedly some Jews were involved in the slave trade, to prominent black leaders like leader of the 'Nation of Islam' organization, Louis Farrakhan, that means that "The Jews", were also largely responsible for slavery. Since Jews inadvertently find themselves overtly represented in Hollywood-music-entertainment, many mistakenly see this as some nefarious conspiracy or proof that "The Jews" in general, are spreading immorality. Near the time of this writing, arguably one of the most famous black celebrities in the world Kanye West, now known as Ye, tweeted:

>"I’m a bit sleepy tonight but when I wake up I’m going death con 3 On JEWISH PEOPLE...You guys have toyed with me and tried to black ball anyone whoever opposes your agenda" 

Soon after, KanYE had dinner with Donald Trump and brought along Holocaust denier-doubter Nick Fuentes, which has caused an immense storm of criticism. Mega basketball star Kyrie Irving has also made national headlines due to having tweeted a movie ('Hebrews to Negroes') that has things many considered "antisemitic". Now what does all this have to do with economics? The world is once again dealing with erroneous Jewish conspiratorial thinking as highlighted by the above. Few object to studying Judaism and its complex co-evolution with other faiths and Western Civilization. What really turns study, comments, or even criticisms of Judaism into "antisemitism" is the monumental error of mistaking Jewish influence resulting from complex evolutionary factors, for the result of nefarious conspiracies as is sadly and understandably the characteristic mark of "antisemites". This mistake of attributing to conspiracy or human reason, what is more the result of complex evolutionary processes, is an intellectual error that is the root, not just of antisemitism, but of our socioeconomic problems and things like the rise of Socialism-Communism-Nazism during the 20th century. And more generally, why mankind is so tribalistic and economically ignorant. And their proper understanding depends on the evolutionary insights of Carl Menger and his so-called ‘Austrian School of Economics’ and men like Ludwig von Mises and 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics F.A. Hayek. In other words, to really understand antisemitism and its numerous disastrous consequences like World War Two, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, even the Russia-Ukraine war, and the current spiraling intellectual chaos regarding Jew-Gentile relations, we must understand how the economy works and has evolved as explained by 'The Austrian School'. If familiarity with these men's basic ideas does not reach people of influence in time homo sapiens will destroy civilization. It is that simple. This will make sense soon. 

 
### We are a part of something greater than ourselves. The Market Process and Spencer's 'Social Organism'.

!INCLUDE "../../snippets/intro-social-organism.md"

## Introduction, Part II.

Notice how all man-made calamities, from religious slaughters, to world wars, to political chaos, are always the result of large groups of homo sapiens somehow coercing each other via government. We have simply not evolved to understand the economic forces that create civilization, the vital need for freedom and privatization, and the immense harm that too much government can do. Supposedly the Dodo bird quickly went extinct because it had not evolved to recognize humans as potential dangers, we similarly just line up for ‘central planning’ and government coordinated self-destruction over and over and over and over.

Imagine you had a time machine and went back in time about 300 years to Salem, Massachusetts during the famed Salem witch trials where 19 women were hanged for witchcraft, and told people that the world could function much better if there was no slavery, that women should have the same rights and freedoms as men, that homosexuality should not be criminalized and seen as part of homo sapiens, and that six million years ago we had a common ancestor with chimpanzees. People would see you as some devilish monstrosity spreading heretical ideas and quickly “conspire” to kill you. Would this mean that the people at the time were somehow dumb or malicious? Or members of some “vast conspiracy” of “bad guys” or “special interests” intent on taking away your freedoms? Of course not. The people would be fellow homo sapiens acting based on the prevailing myths and incentive structures of the times. If by our modern standards pretty much everything about how people saw the world 300 years ago could be understood as myths, in other words, as “widely held but false beliefs or ideas”, why should we not be open to the idea that we too are likewise immersed in mythology in various areas? And if we are wise enough to consider this, shouldn't we tolerate and defend freedom so that we ensure that we never prevent the busting or correction of our current myths? 

It should be easy to realize that all homo sapiens grow up absorbing a continuously evolving culture-language-"identity"-ideas-myths which then leads them to act in ways that lead to disorder via conflict-coercion-war, or order via peace and prosperity. As Mises tells us:

>"It is ideas that group men into fighting factions, that press the weapons into their hands, and that determine against whom and for whom the weapons shall be used. It is they alone, and not arms, that, in the last analysis, turn the scales."

The centuries of slavery, religious slaughters, persecution of minorities, and all man-made calamities were obviously the result, not of "evil" or "madness", but of the ideas and myths held by homo sapiens at the time, and the mistaken alleged need to coerce each other, and as long as the public remains lost in erroneous mythology that leads to government-coordinated coercion, democracy obviously does little good. Hayek:

>"Perhaps the fact that we have seen millions voting themselves into complete dependence on a tyrant has made our generation understand that to choose one's government is not necessarily to secure freedom."

It is obvious that we should focus on the ideas instead of vilifying people and assuming sinister motives or madness as the source of our problems, yet the fact that this goes largely unnoticed as we constantly segregate ourselves along political-tribal-identity lines is further evidence that we are potentially dangerous slightly smarter apes. When a lion takes over a pride and kills the cubs so that the females will once again be ready to mate, we don’t say that the lion is “evil”, we rightly understand the complex evolutionary factors leading to such actions. It is likewise important to look at our socioeconomic disasters using an evolutionary lens that is free of "blame" and full of sympathy and understanding. Hitler, Lenin, Stalin, Mao, Churchill, Roosevelt, Fauci, etc. were not "evil", which is a linguistic construct inherited from more religious times, they were fellow homo sapiens adored by their respective masses who absorbed horrendous ideas or myths propagated by scholars arising from the complexity of the economy as in the case of Socialism (Hitler-Lenin-Mao-Roosevelt-etc.), and the biochemical order as in the case of CovidMania and resulting coercive lockdowns and damaging coerced vaccinations and more (Fauci). As Hayek tells us:

>"It is necessary to realize that the sources of many of the most harmful agents in this world are often not evil men but high-minded idealists, and that in particular the foundations of totalitarian barbarism have been laid by honourable and well-meaning scholars who never recognized the offspring they produced." (Hayek F. A., 1973, p. 70)

Hayek again:

>"Most people are still unwilling to face the most alarming lesson of modern history: that the greatest crimes of our time have been committed by governments that had the enthusiastic support of millions of people who were guided by moral impulses. It is simply not true that Hitler or Mussolini, Lenin or Stalin, appealed only to the worst instincts of their people: they also appealed to some of the feelings which also dominate contemporary democracies." (Hayek F. A., 1976, p. 134)


### KanYE and The Comming and Vital Battle Between Freedom of Speech and Hate Speech and Holocaust Denial Laws.

Again, focusing on ideas, not the interchangable bodies which hold them, antisemitism, as is widely understood, is simply an intellectual error which must be understood as such. Sadly, running around vilifying "antisemites", or worse, making criminals out of them via 'hate speech' laws as so many understandably scared Jews and their sympathetic supporteds do, is disastrous! This does nothing to overcome the fallacies and does immense harm to fellow human beings who just happen to have absorbed erroneous ideas. As will be discussed in more depth, it is especially dangerous and misguided to have 'Holocaust Denial' laws which make it a criminal act to deviate from a particular interpretation of history which I will summarize in one sentence as ‘A deliberate policy of extermination by Nazi leadership leading to about 6 million Jewish deaths with millions murdered via homicidal gas chambers.’ Consider the following, after the collapse of the Soviet Union the total number of people believed to have been killed in Auschwitz was revised from 4 million to 1.5 million and later to 1.1 million. Prior to this "official" massive "revision", someone rightly saying that the number of people killed in Auschwitz was a gross exaggeration or error or Soviet-Communist fabrication could have been sent to prison in the many countries where it is a criminal act to deviate from a certain historical narrative. Similarly, imagine Gina, a "good" person, reads literature that makes the case that mass-gassings were essentially a complex myth that never really took place as commonly believed and is persuaded by such arguments. We are suposed to be courageous and stand up for the truth as we see it, right? Gina would now be a criminal in many countries for doing what most "civilized" people consider to be her moral duty. 'Holocaust Denial' laws further aggrevate antisemitsm because they make it seem to naive thinkers that there really is some overarching nefarious conspiracy by "The Jews" to further their "control" of society, when there really isn't (at least I don't think so). A trully civilized and wise population knows that, for example, when a young black youth who grows up in a poor and gang-infested city and predicatably commits crimes in considerably higher proportion, he is obviously making numerous intellectual errors due to the ideas and incentive structure in his environment. Similarly, antisemitism and all of our problems must be likewise understood as the result of the evolution of complex ideas and fallacies, and freedom of speech must be understood to be of the most vital importance, which must include vehement opposition to "hate speech" and "holocaust denial" laws. 

In a "notorious" interview Kanye West mentioned that Hitler "...didn't kill six million Jews. That's just like factually incorrect." further shocking many, yet part of the intellectual chaos which will continue to increase is the fact that KanYE is correct! Even in the eyes of mainstream Holocaust historians like the author of the sort of "Bible" of the mainstream Holocaust narrative 'The Destruction of the European Jews', Raul Hillberg, the figure is about 5.1 million. So the tribalistic, burn-the-heritic-type reaction to KanYE by the ignorant emotion-driven masses is mistaken here regardless of other errors KanYE may be making. And finally, at least regarding our introduction here, consider the following astonishing facts. In the Nuremberg Trials held after World War Two, the Russians, in other words, Joseph Stalin, also provided evidence, which can be easily verified in the official Nuremberg Trial documents, that the evil Nazis killed people via an [atomic-bomb type device](http://www.cwporter.com/pg11.htm) and a pedal-driven brain [bashing machine](http://www.cwporter.com/pg15.htm). If those "official" claims which were taken as facts during the Nuremberg Trials were eventually discarded, debunked, or ignored, how can human beings be made criminals for believing that perhaps other aspects of the Holocaust-related atrocity narratives like the mass-gassings and purposeful exterminations, be made criminals? If the mass-gassings and purposeful extermination of Jews is the most "evil" act, don't we want to fully understand how it could have happened? And does this not include understanding the views of people who disagree? Especially when many, including Jews like David Cole, Paul Eisen and countless others, do so knowing that they can go to prison? If you are confident in your views, do you want those you disagree with made criminals? How can historians, especially Holocaust and World War Two historians, not make it a priority that at the very least people who see the mass-gassings narrative and Hitler differently not be sent to prison? When one has a proper understanding of economics and thus how freedom really works, people who are willing to risk their lives and fame like KanYE and Nick for their views, no matter how potentially erroneous they may be, should not only be free to do so, but should be praised for their courage. If their views are ultimately wrong, then obviously the arguments against erroneous views need to be improved, and there is much to learn when trying to understand how people are misled into believing falsehoods. And if they are right, it would just be another example, as with coercive Catholic or Socialist rule, where millions of smart well intentioned people fooled themselves via mythology, and prolongued the myths by outlawing freedom of speech which does two vital things homo sapiens is unaware of, 1.) It protects people from violence just for holding views, even if they are making mistakes, and 2.) leads to the emergence of the competition of ideas needed to discover superior information which includes overcoming myths. 

Could the gas-chamber doubters be right? Are men like chemist Germar Rudolf, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology graduate and Professor of electrical engineering at Northwestern University Dr. Arthur Butz correct in their interpretation of the maniacal exterminationist mass-gassing narrative as just a complex myth that kept growing due to complex factors which of course includes the lack of competition in ideas due to censorship? Did the complexity of events surrounding World War Two simply lead these men and other doubters-revisionists-deniers to make errors? Or are they really malicious towards Jews? If so, what fallacies entered their minds which may cause them to potentially dislike Jews and want to purposely mislead people? Or are they right and mainstream Holocaust historians wrong? If mainstream Holocaust historians are wrong, are they, as with Socialist economists-ideologues-bureaucrats in the former Soviet Union, fooled by a complex mixture of ideology, negligence or genuine error (as could also happen with the doubters-deniers-revisionists)? Or are they malicious? How would this affect so many Jews whose very identity is so intertwined with the gas-chamber maniacal narrative? Why doesn't Yad Vashem, the leading Holocaust organization, expose the fallacies in the literature of the "revisionists"-doubters-deniers? And thus help show their negligence, errors, or expose their "antisemitism"? Why does it treat them as some sinister irrational people? It is true that there are many people who really hate Jews and accuse them of conspiring to do all sorts of bad things. Are mainstream Holocaust historians mistaking the serious revisionists like Rudolf, Butz, and Jews Cole and Eisen, with the naive 'antisemites'? And thus 'throwing out the baby with the bathwater'? Or are they as negligent of their arguments as Catholic priests in the late 1800's were regarding Darwin and his ideas? Why did Yad Vashem eventually pressure Amazon.com and Jeff Bezos directly to the point where they banned revisionist books?

I certainly do not expect this to make sense at this point, but the real answers to the above and important ramifications and how the entire world works, ultimately depends on the insights of 'The Austrian School' economists.

### Celebrities.

Next a few things about celebrities. Celebrities for example tend to be wealthy and can easily afford the best housing, education, medical care and provide for the needs of friends and family who may fall on hard times, so generally speaking they have no need for public services which low-income americans supposedly need. Being social animals, fellow homo sapiens are our biggest assets which helps explain the evolution of altruism and compassion, as well as our biggest competitors which helps us understand our horrendous violence towards fellow men. People with a lot of wealth like celebrities are oftentimes involved in philanthropy, they understandably want to be liked and remembered for having done great things and thanks to their finances they can oftentimes hold unpopular opinions which may ultimately do a lot of good. Since celebrities are closely followed and adored by millions, their views, right or wrong, can have an immense impact. If just the following 10 celebrities, Elon Musk, KanYE West, Michael Jordan, Snoop Dogg, Madonna, Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo, Joe Rogan, Bill Gates, and Jeff Bezos came together to spread certain ideas, within a matter of weeks they would be adopted by much of the world. Many people believe that celebrities like musicians and athletes are too dumb or uninterested or unmotivated to actually understand economics and thus how the world works. This is a mistake which is also rooted in economic ignorance. Many people who come to understand free markets and real Capitalism do so via a convoluted process which took them years of study to achieve, so they undertandably believe that getting the public at large and celebrities to also understand free markets and real Capitalism is not possible or worth pursuing. But the greatest economists, like Mises, did not just explain how the world works, they also did so with examples and analogies that made it simple enough for anyone to understand and the expectation that the public at large did. So unlike the convoluted thinkers who would not even bother trying to reach the public and celebrities, "Misesians" are optimistic and adamant about reaching everyone. As Mises tells us:

>"Liberalism is rationalistic. It maintains that it is possible to convince the immense majority... It has full confidence in man's reason. It may be that this optimism is unfounded and that the liberals have erred. But then there is no hope left for mankind's future."

Again, to Mises and his intellectual disciples who are writing this book, we either believe that we can succeed in educating 'the immense majority' and thus act accordingly, or "there is no hope left for mankind's future." Fortunately the recent CovidMania self-mutilation of society, coupled with the tribalistic Russia-Ukraine war and increasing chaos all around us is making the need to catch up to Mises' wisdom and execute his educational strategy more and more obvious and urgent to an increasing number of people.

