

### Jew-Gentile Misunderstandings. 

Hayek earlier:

>“To them the market economy is largely incomprehensible…and its results seem to them irrational and immoral. They often see in it merely an arbitrary structure maintained by some sinister power.”

Next we deal with one group of people where once again economic ignorance leads to their being mistaken as some “sinister power” with disastrous world-wide consequences. "The Jews". Let’s see how the above insights are needed to understand the never-ending antisemitism and emerging Jew-Gentile calamities like World War Two, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Russia-Ukraine war and more.

Different groups of fellow homo sapiens in different locations and times absorb a cultural "identity" and sense of history that persists through generations (Jewish, Christian, Muslim, Russians, Poles, etc.) and these identities due to complex factors find themselves embroiled in deep hatreds which are very understandable. Let us try to look at the history of these hatreds from an evolutionary perspective.

We have to cut a few corners and fast forward from about 100,000 years ago, where there were thousands of little tribes and their respective cultures-software-“identities”, to about 2,000 years ago when some of these groups were being integrated-absorbed into growing empires. So we got Jews, one of these many ethnocentric groups, or better said, cultural "identities", then a Jew by the name of Jesus says he is the son of God and a sort of cultural mutation of Judaism in the form of Christianity emerges. Christian culture-software-identity lost the ethnocentrism that Judaism contains (generally speaking your mother has to be Jewish) which encouraged members to proselytize and rapidly grow in numbers, spreading the great-viral-simple “Ten Commandments”, winning converts who are not supposed to kill each other thus trade relatively peacefully, inadvertently helping spread more freedom and emerging ‘competitive knowledge discovery’. If we look at Christianity, some of its rules which differed from what was more mainstream at the time and inadvertently led to its growth were things like the prohibition of infanticide, condemnation of divorce, incest, marital infidelity and polygamy. In the Greco-Roman world where Christianity emerged, infanticide, especially of girls, was a common and accepted practice leading to populations of more males than females. For example, there were 131 males per 100 females in the city of Rome, and 140 males per 100 females in Italy, Asia Minor, and North Africa. The prohibition of infanticide would help Christian populations grow faster. These values-rules coupled with the relatively higher status afforded to women made this new religious movement much more appealing to women who would often times convert their husbands thus helping the religion and its values spread. Now! Very important! Did early Christian theologians “reason” that such values would play a significant role in the growth of Christianity and its success? Did they plan this? I doubt it. Again, these things “are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design”.

Remaining an inevitably smaller ethnocentric ideology led to the history of ill treatment Jews have experienced at the hands of the larger Christianity and Islam. Unfortunate, but what can we do, we are slightly smarter apes after all. The best we can hope for is to become “civilized” slightly smarter apes, which we do by understanding what leads to civilization, private property, intellectual freedom and the selection of superior information-TRUTH and order that emerges from it.

At around 610 A.D., a great Arab merchant-businessman, Mohammed, whose wife Khadija was Mecca's most prominent venture capitalist who invested in large trade caravans, was visited by the angel Gabriel(the same Gabriel mentioned in the Old Testament’s Book of Daniel) and given the word of God which became Islam’s holy book, the Qur’an. The Qur’an treats Christianity’s main prophet, Jesus, as well as Judaism’s Moses as God’s earlier prophets, but with Mohammed being the last prophet and having compiled the Qur’an directly from divinity, this makes it, according to Muslims, the correct-superior interpretation of God’s word. Islam saw Christians and Jews as “People of the Book”(ahl al-kitāb), or people who had been guided by earlier true prophets and worshiped the one true God according to Islam. This gave Christians and Jews and later other non-believers special albeit inferior standing in the Islamic world, they became “dhimmis” or “protected peoples”. The economic policies of early Islam played an important role in its fast growth. According to tax historian Charles Adams, one of the reasons Islam spread so fast during its infancy was due to the relief of oppressive Roman taxation that converts would enjoy. Adam writes: 

>“In less than 120 years, with an offer of tax immunity, Islam spread very quickly, expanding into India in the East and coming to a halt at the Atlantic Ocean in the West. The main loser was Christianity, which was tied to the oppressive Roman tax system. No religion, before or since, has spread so far, so fast.” 

Unfortunately, yet understandably given the ideological state of mankind at the time, the Qur'an has verses which are highly critical of Jews (to put it kindly). For example :

>"Thou wilt surely find the most hostile of men to the believers are the Jews and the idolaters;"

So it is very easy for Jews to point to such passages to justify their nearly intuitive believe that Islam is antisemitic. However, there is truth to that statement as well. It is understandable how Jews who don't believe that Muhammed was some legitimate prophet might offend Muslims. Consider the following. On Oct 16th, 2010 Rabbi Ovadia Yosef, founder and spiritual leader of the largest religious political party in Israel(Shas) which won 11 of 120 Knesset seats in the 2009 elections, and is also a former Sephardi Chief Rabbi of Israel which can be seen as the sort of Pope of the Sephardic Jews, said in a sermon that:

>“Goyim[non-Jews] were born only to serve us. Without that, they have no place in the world – only to serve the People of Israel,"...“Why are gentiles needed? They will work, they will plow, they will reap. We will sit like an effendi and eat. That is why gentiles [were created,”](https://www.timesofisrael.com/5-of-ovadia-yosefs-most-controversial-quotations/)

His funeral was attended by over 800,000 adoring slightly smarter apes who brainwashed themselves with a "Jewish identity" in Jerusalem...If this slightly smarter ape can expose such views a decade into the 21st century just imagine what other Rabbis in the even more mystical past would say about non-Jews and the understandable bad blood between them and surrounding Muslims-Christians. Little else needs to be said about the tribal identity in-fighting between the various groups of homo sapiens. We just need enough adults in the room that understand how freedom really works.  

#### Inadvertent over-representation in Banking, Finance, Capitalism

The classic and perhaps most important example of the co-evolution of the economy, culture, and 'identities' can be seen with the emergence of modern banking-finance. Finance, banking, and interest rates are other vital aspects of the ‘Market Process’ and emerging Social Organism. Besides the more obvious function of safeguarding savings and pooling the savings of many people to allow the execution of bigger projects which would have been impossible if entrepreneurs were limited to the few savings-wealth of friends and family, banking-finance and more specifically the phenomenon of ‘interest rates’ also play a nearly miraculous role. Thanks to finance and banking people are motivated to save and thus refrain from consumption thus leaving more wealth available for borrowers who then get to consume this wealth as they grow the economic pie by an amount that has to be greater than prevailing interest rates, so they can pay pack the loans with interest. This gives a monumental sort of ‘computational boost’ to society, as saved wealth is accumulated and placed under the control of minds or CPUs that have good ideas. Without finance and banking entrepreneurs would have a much much harder time obtaining the necessary wealth needed to implement their superior ideas thus greatly slowing down the rate at which the social order continuously grows and morphs itself in more productive and technologically advanced way. Unfortunately people through the ages do not understand this and tend to see people getting rich without physical labor by just lending money as somewhat immoral or unfair.

Islam has strong prohibitions against charging interest(usury) which have hampered the economy’s evolution in the Islamic world. The Qur’an mentions:

>“Those who devour usury will not stand except as stands one whom the Evil One by his touch has driven to madness. That is because they say: “Trade is like usury,” but Allah has permitted trade and forbidden usury…”

Christianity’s New Testament seems more usury-friendly via passages like, Luke 19:23 “Why, then, didst thou not put money in a bank, so that I on my return might have gotten it with interest?” , but Luke 6:35 “But love your enemies, do good to them, and lend to them without expecting to get anything back” could be used to support an anti-usury position which is what the Church enforced for over a thousand years before eventually abandoning the strong anti-usury stand.

When it comes to Judaism and the Old Testament, God’s message is one that shuns charging interest between Israelites-Jews but allows it to be charged to non-Israelites. The most influential verses are Deuteronomy 23:20 “You may charge a foreigner interest, but not a brother Israelite…” and Exodus 22:25 “If you lend money to one of my people among you who is needy, do not be like a moneylender; charge him no interest.”

These scriptures have had profound inadvertent ramifications. In a Christian world that would excommunicate usurers-moneylenders, Jews being immune to excommunication and now without Christian competition found an advantage as moneylenders-bankers. Historian Paul Johnson writes:

>“The Jews reacted by engaging in the one business where Christian laws actually discriminated in their favour, and so became identified with the hated trade of moneylending. Rabbi Joseph Colon, who knew both France and Italy in the second half of the fifteenth century, wrote that the Jews of both countries hardly engaged in any other profession” (Johnson, Paul. (1988). A History of the Jews. , p. 174)

Johnson mentions other ways in which Jews helped push the world in a more capitalist direction. One was financial innovation via their influence in the development of stock markets. Another was their stress on the importance of advertising. Better advertising speeds up competition and its spread of superior ideas-products so it is a great boost to civilization-order. The September 27th 1712 issue of England’s Spectator described the Jew’s vital influence as follows:

>"They are so disseminated through all the trading Parts of the World, that they are become the instruments by which the most distant Nations converse with one another and by which mankind are knit together in a general correspondence. They are like the pegs and nails in a great building, which though they are but little valued in themselves, are absolutely necessary to keep the whole frame together." (Sombart "The Jews and Modern Capitalism", p. 171)

It was bad enough that they rejected the divinity of Christianity and Islam and practiced usury; but Jews were also fierce competitors who would upset Christian businessmen by disrupting their anti-competitive customs, all for the great benefit of the consumer and European social order and culture of course. Unfortunately, economic ignorance would lead many to understandably hate Jews and their understandable yet, very important!, inadvertent over-representation in business-Capitalism. Mises writes:

>"The Nazis have an ally in every town or village where there is a man eager to get rid of a Jewish competitor. The secret weapon of Hitler is the anti-Jewish inclinations of many millions of shopkeepers and grocers, of doctors and lawyers, professors and writers." [(Mises, "Omnipotent Government")](https://oll.libertyfund.org/titles/mises-omnipotent-government-the-rise-of-the-total-state-and-total-war/simple)

Hitler, who like most popular leaders was simply the embodiment of the economic fallacies-myths-prejudices of the times, was of course a ‘National Socialist’, who had little understanding of the vital role that economic freedom and emerging ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ plays in society and erroneously saw things like the emerging stock markets and finance industry, especially given the relative over-representation of Jews, as some gimmick-scam plotted by them to the detriment of non-Jews. His fallacies-ignorance can easily be seen in excerpts like this one from a speech given in Munich on July 28th, 1922:

>"The vast process of the industrialization of the peoples meant the confluence of great masses of workmen in the towns...Parallel with this was a gradual 'moneyfication' of the whole of the nation's labor-strength. 'Share-capital' was in the ascendant, and thus bit by bit the Stock Exchange came to control the whole national economy. The directors of these institutions were, and are without exception, Jews. I say 'without exception,' for the few non-Jews who had a share in them are in the last resort nothing but screens, shop-window Christians, whom one needs in order, for the sake of the masses, to keep up the appearance that these institutions were after all founded as a natural outcome of the needs and the economic life of all peoples alike, and were not, as was the fact, institutions which correspond only with the essential characteristics of the Jewish people and are the outcome of those characteristics." [(Hitler)](http://comicism.tripod.com/220728.html)

We should quickly add that Winston Churchill, being a fellow slightly smarter ape like Hitler and absorbing similar popular ideas of the times was just as (if not more) racist than Hitler and for draconian forceful sterilizations:

>"I propose that 100,000 degenerate Britons should be forcibly sterilized and others put in labour camps to halt the decline of the British race."

>"I am strongly in favour of using poisoned gas against uncivilised tribes"

>"[Mahatma Gandhi] ought to be lain bound hand and foot at the gates of Delhi, and then trampled on by an enormous elephant with the new Viceroy seated on its back. Gandhi-ism and everything it stands for will have to be grappled with and crushed."

>"I hate Indians. They are beastly people with a beastly religion."

>"I do not admit… that a great wrong has been done to the Red Indians of America, or the black people of Australia… by the fact that a stronger race, a higher grade race… has come in and taken its place." 

#### Inadvertent over-representation in Socialism and Communism

Next, let us also briefly discuss some of the environmental-"evolutionary factors"-pressures which unfortunately attracted so many Jews to Socialism-Communism with disastrous repercussions. How prevalent were Jews in spreading-implementing Socialist-Communist ideology? First of all there was Karl Marx, Socialism-Communism’s main intellectual who gave the movement enough of a naïve intellectual aura to mislead hundreds of future would-be dictators-intellectuals. Leon Trotsky(born Lev Davidovich Bronstein), founder of the Red Army, second only to Lenin and most likely to succeed him as leader of the Russian communists was also an ethnic Jew. Slezkine writes:

>"At the First All-Russian Congress of Soviets in June 1917, at least 31 percent of Bolshevik delegates(and 37 percent of Unified Social Democrats) were Jews. At the Bolshevik Central Committee meeting of October 23, 1917, which voted to launch an armed insurrection, 5 out of the 12 members present were Jews. Three out of seven Politbureau members charged with leading the October uprising were Jews(Trotsky, Zinoviev, and Grigory Sokolnikov)." (Slezkine,"The Jewish Century" p. 175)

According to Lenin, it was thanks to Jews that his Bolsheviks were able to “take over the state apparatus” in Russia. Lenin mentions:

>"The fact that there were many Jewish intelligentsia members in the Russian cities was of great importance to the revolution. They put an end to the general sabotage that we were confronted with after the October Revolution… The Jewish elements were mobilized… and thus saved the revolution at a difficult time. It was only thanks to this pool of a rational and literate labor force that we succeeded in taking over the state apparatus" (Slezkine, "The Jewish Century" p. 224)

For a people who were sometimes seen as foreigners, Socialism’s international brotherhood (“Workers of the world, unite!” was to be a popular rallying cry) would seem to have an additional appeal and be a perfect fit for a people who were already a sort of international family. Socialism’s atheism would also do away with a major source of Jewish troubles now that everyone was supposed to be atheist-irreligious in the new scientific and rational Socialist world. The central and viral economic fallacy of Socialism, that having smart people-”experts” plan the social order would be better than letting selfish and greedy businessmen do so, needed the smarter and better educated to be the planners, and this is exactly what Jews were compared to the rest (at least in Russia), thus naturally and inadvertently rising to the top of the movement. As Chaim Weizmann recalls in his autobiography: “the non-Jewish population had not the same overwhelming thirst for knowledge as the Jews, who were always knocking at the doors of the schools.”

This large participation-association of ethnic Jews with Socialism would have disastrous consequences for the majority of Jews who did not want to be a part of Socialism or much less abandon their faith and traditions. As Lenin and Trotsky were launching post-World War One Russia into a civil war(1918–22) between the Communist Red Army and the White Russian Army which supported the Russian Monarchy and old order-institutions, Jews would pay a heavy price. Johnson writes that:

>“The consequences for the Jews both immediate and long-term, both locally and world-wide, were appalling. The White Russian armies, seeking to destroy the Soviet regime, treated all Jews as enemies. In the Ukraine, the Civil War developed into the most extensive pogrom in Jewish history… In other parts of eastern Europe, a similar identification of Jews with Bolshevism led directly to murderous attacks on harmless Jewish communities. They were particularly bloody in Poland after the failure of the Bolshevik invasion and in Hungary after the fall of the Bela Kun regime. They occurred intermittently in Rumania throughout the 1920s. In all three countries the local Communist Parties had been largely created and run by Non-Jewish Jews, and in each case it was the unpolitical, traditional, observant Jews of the ghettos and villages who paid the penalty.”  (Johnson, "A History of the Jews", p. 452)

Again, it needs to be stressed, as Johnson just mentioned: “In all three countries the local Communist Parties had been largely created and run by Non-Jewish Jews”. Thus it is quite understandable how so many like Hitler, Churchill and many Europeans came to associate-equate Jews with it.


Winston Churchill wisely recognized the tremendous role Jews, or, again, better said, "Jewish Identity" or 'cultural software', has played in spreading civilization-enabling ideas, as in the foundation of Christian-Western morals(the simplicity-viralness-competitiveness of the Ten Commandments), as well as disastrous ones as in the case of their large involvement in Socialism-Communism. He writes:

>"Some people like Jews and some do not; but no thoughtful man can doubt the fact that they are beyond all question the most formidable and the most remarkable race which has ever appeared in the world….The conflict between good and evil which proceeds unceasingly in the breast of man nowhere reaches such an intensity as in the Jewish race. The dual nature of mankind is nowhere more strongly or more terribly exemplified. We owe to the Jews in the Christian revelation a system of ethics which, even if it were entirely separated from the supernatural, would be incomparably the most precious possession of mankind, worth in fact the fruits of all other wisdom and learning put together. On that system and by that faith there has been built out of the wreck of the Roman Empire the whole of our existing civilization. And it may well be that this same astounding race may at the present time be in the actual process of producing another system of morals and philosophy, as malevolent as Christianity was benevolent, which, if not arrested, would shatter irretrievably all that Christianity has rendered possible. It would almost seem as if the gospel of Christ and the gospel of Antichrist were destined to originate among the same people; and that this mystic and mysterious race had been chosen for the supreme manifestations, both of the divine and the diabolical….

>There is no need to exaggerate the part played in the creation of Bolshevism and in the actual bringing about of the Russian Revolution, by these international and for the most part atheistical Jews, it is certainly a very great one; it probably outweighs all others. With the notable exception of Lenin, the majority of the leading figures are Jews. Moreover, the principal inspiration and driving power comes from the Jewish leaders. Thus Tchitcherin, a pure Russian, is eclipsed by his nominal subordinate Litvinoff, and the influence of Russians like Bukharin or Lunacharski cannot be compared with the power of Trotsky, or of Zinovieff, the Dictator of the Red Citadel (Petrograd) or of Krassin or Radek –all Jews. In the Soviet institutions the predominance of Jews is even more astonishing. And the prominent, if not indeed the principal, part in the system of terrorism applied by the Extraordinary Commissions for Combating Counter-Revolution has been taken by Jews…" [(Churchill's essay "Zionism vs. Bolshevism (1920))](https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Zionism_versus_Bolshevism )

Churchill's last sentence above refers to the most unfortunate over-representation of Jews within the Communist nightmare, their over-representation in the top echelons of the Soviet Union's famed-tyrannical secret police, the Cheka, later becoming the OGPU, then NKVD… Slezkine writes that:

>"In 1923, at the time of the creation of the OGPU(the Cheka's successor), Jews made up 15.5 percent of all "leading" officials and 50 percent of the top brass (4 out of 8 members of the Collegium's Secretariat). "Socially alien" Jews were well represented among Cheka-OGPU prisoners, too, but Leonard Schapiro is probably justified in generalizing (especially about the territory of the former Pale) that "anyone who had the misfortune to fall into the hands of the Cheka stood a very good chance of finding himself confronted with and possibly shot by a Jewish investigator." (Slezkine, Yuri. (2004). The Jewish Century., p. 177) … "Indeed, the Soviet secret police - the regime's sacred center, known after 1934 as the NKVD - was one of the most Jewish of all Soviet institutions. In January 1937, on the eve of the Great Terror, the 111 top NKVD officials included 42 Jews, 35 Russians, 8 Latvians, and 26 others. Out of twenty NKVD directorates, twelve(60 percent, including State Security, Police, Labor Camps, and Resettlement) were headed by officers who identified themselves as ethnic Jews. The most exclusive and sensitive of all NKVD agencies, the Main Directorate for State Security, consisted of ten departments: seven of them(…) were run by immigrants from the former Pale of Settlement. Foreign service was an almost exclusively Jewish specialty (as was spying for the Soviet Union in Western Europe and especially in the United States). The Gulag, or Main Labor Camp Administration, was headed by ethnic Jews from 1930, when it was formed, until late November 1938, when the Great Terror was almost over." (Ibid, pp. 254–5)

You have better educated Jewish atheists, who also have an additional potential reason to dislike religion, not just because of the understandable arrogance and sense of superiority that many atheists have towards the religious, but also because of the previous suffering Jews had at the hands of Christianity. This again helps us understand why so many Christians have a unique hatred of Jews. Again, all of this must be seen as “indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design.”

We are now in a position to fully appreciate the wisdom of the founder of the misguided ideology of political Zionism and the eventual creation of Israel, Theodor Herzl when he writes:

>"We are what the Ghetto made us. We have attained pre-eminence in finance, because mediaeval conditions drove us to it. The same process is now being repeated. We are again being forced into finance, now it is the stock exchange, by being kept out of other branches of economic activity. Being on the stock exchange, we are consequently exposed afresh to contempt. At the same time we continue to produce an abundance of mediocre intellects who find no outlet, and this endangers our social position as much as does our increasing wealth. Educated Jews without means are now rapidly becoming Socialists. Hence we are certain to suffer very severely in the struggle between classes, because we stand in the most exposed position in the camps of both Socialists and [capitalists."](https://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/quot-the-jewish-state-quot-theodor-herzl) 

We must emphasize that Socialist-Communist ideology, rooted on easy to absorb economic fallacies, was already spreading throughout the world and can be seen as an almost inevitable mistake as mankind tried to make sense of the workings of the social order-economy which was quickly growing in bewildering complexity. Jews were inadvertently in a position to be more attracted to Socialism and Capitalism and be leaders in both. They obviously did not “invent” or “plot” Socialism-Communism-Capitalism like Hitler and many others to this day claim. It could be said that they were ‘naturally selected’ to be Socialist-Capitalist-finance leaders, thus giving the impression to naïve thinkers that they were its “creators-plotters”.

#### Inadvertent over-representation in Hollywood, Music, "degeneracy"

The over-representation and influence of Jews in Media and Hollywood which Kanye West and others lament is also an understandable inadvertent outgrowth of the above factors. By being more likely to be atheists and thus freer from traditional religion-influenced morals, and also better educated which goes hand-in-hand with a Darwinian-evolutionary outlook which is more tolerant and permissive of human nature, Jews once again found themselves leaders in the carnal pleasures associated with Hollywood, pornography, and the music industry. As Marlon Brando put it: “Hollywood is run by Jews. It’s owned by Jews”…Totally understandable and NOT part of some self-serving malicious plotters. This again helps us understand the Epstein scandal and crypto exchange FTX fraud led by Jew Sam Bankman-Fried. Jewish involvement and influence in such movements-industries is “indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design.” If “the Jews” were smart enough to “plot” the numerous things the non-Jewish world accuses them of, they would have been smart enough to realize that Socialism-Communism was a disaster for Jew and non-Jew alike and have been telling everyone about fellow Jew Ludwig von Mises and have built him a 20+ feet solid gold statue and placed it in front of the Western Wall. The fact that they have yet to do this is further evidence that Jews in general are as lost in ignorance and mythology as the rest which makes perfect sense when one realizes that Jews, Muslims, Christians, Russians, Americans, etc. are just fellow homo sapiens who grow up in a particular place-time and absorb a Jewish-Muslim-Christian “identity”-software-myths.

#### Inadvertent evolution of the disastrous Zionist "Identity" 

Next we want to identify, understand, and help overcome a repeating pattern that once again threatens to destroy civilization via the Russia-Ukraine war. Some homo sapiens make numerous errors leading to antisemitism, which then leads Jews and sympathetic supporters, lacking the proper understanding of the root causes of antisemitism, to treat the antisemites, not as misguided homo sapiens, but as some “evil” people to be silenced, made criminals out of (for allegedly ‘spreading hate’), or destroyed via disastrous world wars as with Hitler’s Germany and World War Two. Jews, oftentimes with admirable patience, do try to educate the "antisemites", but they do so by showing them the history of Jewish suffering instead of getting to the root socioeconomic fallacies mentioned above since they are unaware of them, so the fallacies and resulting antisemitism and related chaos continues.

Take for example Zionism, the idea that Jews should live in their own country which eventually became today's Israel. Both antisemitism and Zionism are rooted in the same intellectual error, that the homo sapiens who “identify as Jews” are so different from the other homo sapiens that they must leave the real thousands of towns and Synagogues where for hundreds of years they were an integral part of Western Civilization to create a country based on religious mythology in an area already populated by others who had a different “identity” (Muslims, Christians, and fellow anti-Zionist Jews) and for numerous understandable reasons were adamantly opposed to the creation of a “Jewish State” in their surroundings. 

By the late 1800s, as reason was replacing religious mysticism-squabbles, as the idea that all homo sapiens should have freedom and the same individual rights was spreading, things were quickly improving for all Europeans and especially Jews. As the Church and its monarchical rulers were being replaced by nationalist representative governments, the idea of Jewish Nationalism understandably emerged. Also as this increase in freedom *inadvertently* led to superior *'competitive knowledge discovery'* which led to Europeans increasing their dominance of the world, so did the potential influence of European Jews. Given their ill treatment in the form of pogroms and legal restrictions as well as some religious zeal, eventually the idea of having their own country-state (an ideology which is known as Zionism) gained enough traction, a “traction” which understandably increased as Hitler rose to power.

Theodore Herzl himself highlighted the ideological congruence of both Zionists and antisemites in his foundational book “The Jewish State”(1896):

>“The anti-semites will be our most steadfast friends.” “The anti-Semitic countries will be our allies” “Great exertions will hardly be necessary to spur on the movement. Anti-Semites provide the requisite impetus. They need only do what they did before, and then they will create a desire to emigrate where it did not previously exist, and strengthen it where it existed before.”

We already mentioned how freedom and the competition that grows from it was shaping the relatively “ethnocentric” identities of all peoples and turning us into worldly citizens. During the early days of political Zionism most Jews understandably thought it was a bad idea. The rabbinical establishment in Munich, Germany, where Herzl wanted to hold the First Zionist Congress, strongly rejected the idea so the meeting was moved to Basle Switzerland(8/29–31/1897). They told him :

>“We, however, can say to our fellow countrymen with complete conviction that we comprise a separate community solely with respect to religion. Regarding nationality, we feel totally at one with our fellow Germans and therefore strive towards the realization of the spiritual and moral goals of our dear fatherland with an enthusiasm equaling theirs.”

This makes perfect sense. German, Polish, Russian, Spanish Jews spoke German, Polish, Russian, Spanish and for centuries their identities had evolved in those locations where their Synagogues had been built and they made real tangible contributions to the evolution of Western Civilization. 

Many Jews were eventually divided into the Zionists and anti-Zionists (“assimilationists”). Chaim Weizmann, the leading Zionist figure after Herzl’s death in 1904, lamented how “assimilated Jews” were “dead against Zionism” and identified Zionism (correctly IMHO) as “a primitive tribalism”:

>"For assimilated Jews...They looked upon it...as a primitive tribalism. They felt themselves...called upon to "rescue" Judaism from Zionism...these people are dead against Zionism...Zionism is not meant for those people who have cut themselves adrift [from Jewry..."](https://books.google.com/books?id=fl2mDwAAQBAJ&pg=PT195&lpg=PT195&dq=%22these+people+are+dead+against+Zionism%22&source=bl&ots=a-o-r-Wnsc&sig=ACfU3U0LI-8_Jfxm7zq0ugg-knd9AF_uBw&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwirlLKh3PDmAhXLl54KHeA0CtwQ6AEwAHoECAMQAQ#v=onepage&q=%22these%20people%20are%20dead%20against%20Zionism%22&f=false)

Of course! That rapidly increasing number of very well educated less-religious cosmopolitan “assimilated Jews” spread all over Europe-USA just wanted to be fellow human beings or equal world citizens free of ancient tribalisms-mysticisms-identities. Unfortunately, for very understandable reasons-factors for which nobody is to blame, like a rocket that is just about to reach orbit but runs out of fuel and comes crashing down to earth, Zionism would inadvertently pull Jews and all of Western Civilization back to an increasingly ethnocentric identity-worldview with disastrous consequences. The Zionist Jews began to tie their “identity” to a massive error and eventually reach the stage where we are today, where saying that Zionism and the resulting Israeli state as it currently functions has been a massive error, essentially what most Jews in the late 1800s were wisely saying, is seen by many Jews today as antisemitic. Like a young ideologue who is persuaded by Marx’s Communist Manifesto and sees businessmen as sinister capitalists to be killed, as Israeli author of the excellent book 'The Invention of the Jewish People', Shlomo Sand, notices ‘Zionism has become…. [a sort of Stalinism’](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kHCaykhbvvA) which seeks to make it a ‘hate crime’ to criticize or want to dismantle the current Israeli-Zionist state, and thus imprison, beat and ultimately kill those who disagree with Zionist mythology. Once again! Very importantly! This should NOT be seen as the “fault” of the fellow homo sapiens who have absorbed a 'Zionist identity'. The Bolshevik hordes and their intellectuals and politicians which brought about so much tyranny, like the witch burners, were just executing the myths that polluted their minds. Just like the obvious desire of some businessmen to pay employees less in order to make large profits is all Communists needed to see to justify their ideology, similarly, the Zionists can easily find “anti-Semites” and people who erroneously accuse Jews of ‘plotting’ capitalism or communism or killing Jesus and all that nonsense to justify their Zionism.

#### The History of Modern Day Israel

Given the above it is easy to understand how the Zionist mindset-identity-software would continue to spread. Zionism was an error made not by "Jews", but by Europeans-mankind in general. Actually, it is not really an error, just an "evolved" ideological movement, that similar to Socialism, would be disastrous. Had there been no antisemitism-Jew-Gentile conflicts in ‘Western Civilization’, Zionism and resulting ongoing disastrous ramifications simply would not have occurred. 

Many Christians with the best of intentions also played a significant role, it easily made sense for many that "The Jews" should live in their ancient lands, for example American president during World War One Woodrow Wilson too liked the idea: “To think, that I the son of a manse should be able to help restore the Holy Land to its people.” Wanting to win the support of Jews everywhere for their First World War against Germany, on November 2nd 1917, via the ‘Balfour Declaration’, the British government officially made it a policy to help create a “National Home” for Jews in Palestine. Former Prime Minister James Balfour mentioned in a cabinet meeting that:

>“The vast majority of Jews in Russia and America... now appear to be favorable to Zionism. If we could make a declaration favorable to such an ideal, we should be able to carry on extremely useful propaganda in both Russia and America.” (Judis, p. 59)

British Prime Minister during World War One Lloyd George added that:

>“the Zionist leaders gave us a definite promise that, if the Allies committed themselves to giving facilities for the establishment of a National Home for the Jews in Palestine, they would do their best to rally to the Allied cause.” (Judis, p. 59) 

What about the 700,000 or so Arabs who already inhabited Palestine? The imperialist attitude of the British-Europeans is perfectly captured by former Prime Minister Lord Balfour who said at the time:

>“I am quite unable to see why Heaven or any other Power should object to our telling the Moslem what he ought to think”

And:

>“For in Palestine we do not propose to even go through the form of consulting the wishes of the present inhabitants of the country... The Four Great Powers [Britain, France, Italy and the United States] are committed to Zionism. And Zionism, be it right or wrong, good or bad, is rooted in age-long traditions, in present needs, and future hopes, of far profounder import than the desires and prejudices of the 700,000 Arabs who now inhabit that ancient land.”

If the Palestinians-natives had some form of truly representative government the Zionist error could have been prevented but to a significant degree this was not to be thanks to Zionism’s perhaps most influential ally, Winston Churchill. During the First World War, serving as First Lord of the Admiralty, Churchill faced a growing shortage of acetone, which was needed as part of the process used to make cordite, an essential naval explosive. Chaim Weizmann just happened to be a chemist and was able to solve this problem thus increasing his influence with leading British authorities. When Prime Minister David Lloyd George asked Weizmann what he wanted for payment, according to Lloyd George, Weizmann said “the rights to Palestine.” During the years 1920-1922 Churchill was the Colonial Secretary allowing him to call the shots in the British controlled Middle East. On May 12th, 1921 Palestinian representatives sent the Colonial Office resolutions asking for representative government, the annulling of the Balfour Declaration, and prohibition of Jewish immigration, but on May 31st Churchill told the British Cabinet that:

>“he had decided to suspend the development of representative institutions in Palestine ‘owing to the fact that any elected body would undoubtedly prohibit further immigration of Jews’ ” (Gilbert, 1991, p. 437)

Many of these Jews were racist, atheist Communists whose views could not be more insulting to local Arabs. In early May two rival Jewish communist organizations (one of them calling for the creation of a “Soviet Union of Palestine”) held parades and came to blows with each other sparking a riot which would last many days, spread to surrounding cities/towns, and take the lives of dozens of Jews and Arabs. Churchill historian Martin Gilbert writes that:

>“In response, the British administration imposed a collective fine on the Arabs of Jaffa, and on the Arab villages from which some of the attackers had come. On 17 November Churchill wrote to his officials: ‘Sir Herbert Samuel should be held stiffly up to the enforcement of the fines on Jaffa.’… Churchill was surprised and shocked when Samuel informed him that the Arabs had been provoked to riot by a hard core of Jewish Communists. It was Samuel’s responsibility, Churchill replied, to ‘purge the Jewish Colonies and newcomers of Communist elements, and without hesitation or delay have all those who are guilty of subversive agitation expelled from the country.’ Whatever part Jewish Communists had played in the Jaffa riots, Churchill told Samuel, he was even more angered by the Arab attempt to use violence throughout Palestine ‘in the hope of frightening us out of our Zionist policy.’” (Gilbert, 2007, p. 73)

In 1918, when Palestine became a British dominion there were about 60,000(8%) Jews and 700,000(92%) Arabs, by 1922 84,000(10%) Jews and 760,000(90%) Arabs, by 1931 Jews were about 17% of the population. Once Hitler rose to power the years 1933-36 brought record numbers of Jews to Palestine, 30,000, 42,000, 62,000, and 30,000 respectively, about 164,000 in total, which quickly led to Jews being almost 28% of the population by 1937. Zionist leader and future Israeli Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion had no problems understanding the Arab point of view:

>“There is a fundamental conflict. We and they want the same thing: We both want Palestine. And that is the fundamental conflict”… “Were I an Arab…I would rise up against immigration liable sometime in the future to hand the country and all of its Arab inhabitants over to Jewish rule. What Arab cannot do his math and understand that immigration at the rate of 60,000 a year means a Jewish state in all of Palestine?” (Teveth, pp. 166-8)

By 1939 The British were no longer in favor of a Jewish State or distinctively Jewish national home as had been implied by the Balfour declaration, and were now in favor of a single Palestinian state where Jews and Arabs would get along as equals, but this was behemantly opposed by Zionists and their supporters like Churchill who on May 23rd, 1939 gave a speech in the House of Commons attacking this change in policy. He said:

>“To whom was the pledge of the Balfour Declaration made? It was not made to the Jews of Palestine, it was not made to those who were actually living in Palestine. It was made to world Jewry and in particular to the Zionist associations. It was in consequence of and on the basis of this pledge that we received important help in the war.”

It is important to note how Churchill is admitting that Zionist Jews helped them win World War One against Germany.

About a month earlier on April 1st, 1939 that crazy and irrational maniacal Hitler gave a speech where he mentioned “What right, for example, has England to shoot down Arabs in Palestine just because they defend their homeland; who gives them this right?” And in another speech a few weeks later on April 28th Hitler reminded the self-righteous Roosevelt of certain obvious facts:

>“Similarly the fact has obviously escaped Mr. Roosevelt's notice that Palestine is at present occupied not by German troops but by the English; and that the country is undergoing restriction of its liberty by the most brutal resort to force, is being robbed of its independence and is suffering the cruelest maltreatment for the benefit of Jewish interlopers. The Arabs living in that country would therefore certainly not have complained to Mr. Roosevelt of German aggression, but they are voicing a constant appeal to the world, deploring the barbarous methods with which England is attempting to suppress a people which loves its freedom and is merely defending it.”

England’s change of heart, regardless of Churchill’s efforts, was unwelcomed by the Zionists especially once World War Two broke out in September of that year. Zionist paramilitary groups like the Irgun and Stern Gang, which would usually fight Arabs, began to wage a bloody terrorist campaign against the British once the war ended. Perhaps the most famous of such terrorist acts against the British was the bombing of the King David Hotel by the Irgun (leb by future Israeli PM Menachem Begin) on July 22nd 1946 where 91 people were killed and another 41 injured. By 1947, after dealing with Zionist animosity as well as the expenses associated with supporting nearly 100,000 troops in Palestine, the British felt like they had had enough and decided to turn over the whole mess to the United Nations. 

The United Nations created the UNSCOP(UN Special Committee on Palestine) and came up with a *recommendation*, the “U.N. partition plan of 1947” (aka Resolution 181) which gave 55% of the land to 37% of the people(Jews) for a future Jewish state and 44% of the land for the majority and native Arab population for their future state, with the city of Jerusalem administered by the U.N. Going against the advice of the State Department and the Pentagon, US President Harry Truman was persuaded by the tremendous pro-Zionist environment and went along and endorsed the recommendation. Needless to say the Arabs felt like some white guys in Europe deciding how to restructure the area, especially in such a manner, was not acceptable. The Zionists were understandably fed-up with the usual antisemitism and sporadic clashes with local Arabs, and as the British withdrew their forces they went on the offensive encouraging the depopulation of Arab villages and towns. Brigades were instructed:

“In the conquest of villages in your area, you will determine –whether to cleanse or destroy them.” (Morris, 2004, p. 165)

The common strategy was to use mortars to rain in bombs from above which would cause panic and exodus and then move in to finish the job. For example, one particular offensive in the coastal city of Haifa is partly described by Morris as follows: 

>“In preparation for the assault, around midnight 21/22 April, the Hagana had let loose with a 15-minute, 50-round barrage of heavy mortars on the lower city, triggering ‘great panic…and the mass exodus began’. Further barrages were released periodically during the night and in the morning of 22 April. By early afternoon, the attacks had broken the back of Arab resistance. Hours earlier, at 09:00, 22 April, Hagana units had reached Hamra Square and found it deserted: ‘All was desolate, the shops closed, no traffic…only several sick old Arab men and women moved about, confused.’”  (Morris, 2004, p. 190)

Later in the day a British intelligence officer describes the scene at the Haifa harbor’s entrance:

>“During the morning [the Jews], were continually shooting down on all Arabs who moved both in Wadi Nisnas and the Old City. This included completely indiscriminate and revolting machine gun fire, mortar fire and sniping on women and children sheltering in churches and attempting to get out…there was considerable congestion outside the East Gate of hysterical and terrified Arab women and children and old people on whom the Jews opened up mercilessly with fire.”  (Morris, 2004, p. 191)

Perhaps the most famous attack was the so-called “Deir Yassin massacre” which took place on April 9, 1948. Albert Einstein, along with 27 prominent Jews in New York, published a letter in the Dec 4th 1948 issue of the New York Times condemning the attack and Menachem Begin’s group, the Irgun, who was behind it:

>“terrorist bands attacked this peaceful village, which was not a military objective in the fighting, killed most of its inhabitants - 240 men, women, and children - and kept a few of them alive to parade as captives through the streets of Jerusalem. Most of the Jewish community was horrified at the deed, and the Jewish Agency sent a telegram of apology to King Abdullah of Trans-Jordan. But the terrorists, far from being ashamed of their act, were proud of this massacre, publicized it widely, and invited all the foreign correspondents present in the country to view the heaped corpses and the general havoc at Deir Yassin.”

Now, I personally have little doubt that Menachem Begin would NEVER order or condone any massacre as implied above. Atrocity myths easily arise in complex and emotionally charged environments like wars. In fairness to Begin, here is his take on what happened:

>“To counteract the loss of Dir Yassin, a village of strategic importance, Arab headquarters at Ramallah broadcast a crude atrocity story, alleging a massacre by Irgun troops of women and children in the village. Certain Jewish officials, fearing the Irgun’s men as political rivals, seized upon this Arab gruel propaganda to smear the Irgun. An eminent Rabbi was induced to reprimand the Irgun before he had had time to sift the truth. Out of evil, however, good came. This Arab propaganda spread a legend of terror amongst Arabs and Arab troops, who were seized with panic at the mention of Irgun soldiers. The legend was worth half a dozen battalions to the forces of Israel. The “Dir Yassin Massacre” lie is still propagated by Jew-haters all over the world.” (Begin, pp. 226-7) 

How many of the deaths were due to indiscriminate killing might be lost in the past but news of the attack on Deir Yassin and alleged atrocities spread quickly helping spur panic and accelerating the mass exodus of Palestinians.

The thought of forcibly transferring Arabs to make way for a Jewish homeland had been in the mind of top Zionist leaders for a long time. For example, among many statements supporting transfer by leading Zionists, Ben Gurion mentioned in 1938:

>“With compulsory transfer we [would] have a vast area [for settlement]….I support compulsory transfer. I don’t see anything immoral in it.” (Morris, 1999, p. 144)

On the 6th of February 1948, during a Mapai Party Council, someone mentioned that “we have no land there” while referring to some lands west of Jerusalem, to which Ben Gurion replied:

>“The war will give us the land. The concepts of “ours” and “not ours” are only concepts for peacetime, and during war they lose their meaning” –Ben-Gurion’s War Diary, Vol. 1, entry dated 6 February 1948. p.211

Ben-Gurion also mentioned in his diary

>“The compulsory transfer of the Arabs... could give us something which we never had...This is national consolidation in an independent homeland.” (Morris, 2004, p. 47) 

And also declared at a congressional meeting:

>“Transfer is what will make possible a comprehensive settlement program. Thankfully, the Arab people have vast empty areas. Jewish power, which grows steadily, will also increase our possibilities to carry out transfer on a large scale.” (Morris, 2004, p. 48)

Yosef Weitz who was the director of the Land and Afforestation Department of the Jewish National Fund and was an avid supporter of forced transfer:

>“Our army is steadily conquering Arab villages and their inhabitants are afraid and fleeing like mice. You have no idea what happened in the Arab villages. It is enough that during the night several shells whistle overhead and they flee for their lives. Villages are steadily emptying, and if we continue on this course–and we shall certainly do so as our strength increases–then tens of villages will empty their inhabitants. This time these self-confident ones, too, will feel what it is like to be refugees. Maybe they will understand us.” (Morris, 2004, p. 243)

By the time things settled in 1949, over 400 Palestinian villages and towns were destroyed or depopulated. About 700,000 Palestinians were displaced from their homes and NOT allowed to return once the fighting ended in an act of massive theft. At this point many can reason that this is all too bad for the Palestinians but the Jews had no choice but to take such measures. According to renown Israeli historian Benny Morris, the offensive which eventually was used to overrun and expel the Arabs was begun due to the fact that Arabs were cutting vital supply lines to Jerusalem and that if the Jews did not go into the offensive eventually they would not be able to hold out forever and perhaps be thrown into the sea. One could make this case. But even if this were true, that the Zionists went on the offensive and ended up depopulating a huge piece of land due to security reasons, Zionist leaders had been looking for the opportunity to transfer Arabs from lands they hoped to have for a future state for a long time and this war was obviously used to achieve this, and no attempts were made to allow people to return to their property. 
 
When David Ben Gurion declared victory and the establishment of Israel in 1949, then US president Harry S. Truman was advised by the State Department and others against recognizing it, but in his how words:

>“I’m sorry, gentlemen, but I have to answer to hundreds of thousands who are anxious for the success of Zionism; I do not have hundreds of thousands of Arabs among my constituents.”

Next let’s quote some leading Zionist keeping in mind that many educated Palestinians and Arab leaders are aware of such statements:

>"The Palestinians are like crocodiles, the more you give them meat, they want more" -- Ehud Barak, Prime Minister of Israel at the time - August 28, 2000. Reported in the Jerusalem Post August 30, 2000.

>"(The Palestinians are) beasts walking on two legs." Menachem Begin, speech to the Knesset, quoted in Amnon Kapeliouk, "Begin and the Beasts". New Statesman, 25 June 1982.

>"When we have settled the land, all the Arabs will be able to do about it will be to scurry around like drugged cockroaches in a bottle." Raphael Eitan, Chief of Staff of the Israeli Defense Forces, New York Times, 14 April 1983.

>"We declare openly that the Arabs have no right to settle on even one centimeter of Eretz Israel... Force is all they do or ever will understand. We shall use the ultimate force until the Palestinians come crawling to us on all fours." Rafael Eitan, Chief of Staff of the Israeli Defense Forces - Gad Becker, Yediot Ahronot 13 April 1983, New York Times 14 April 1983.
 
>"How can we return the occupied territories? There is nobody to return them to." Golda Maier, March 8, 1969.

>"There was no such thing as Palestinians, they never existed." Golda Maier Israeli Prime Minister June 15, 1969.

>“We must do everything to insure they never do return. The old will die and the young will forget.” David Ben-Gurion’s Diary, 18 July, 1948, Michael Bar Zohar, Ben-Gurion: The Armed Prophet, 1967).

>"We should prepare to go over to the offensive. Our aim is to smash Lebanon, Trans-Jordan, and Syria. The weak point is Lebanon, for the Moslem regime is artificial and easy for us to undermine. We shall establish a Christian state there, and then we will smash the Arab Legion, eliminate Trans-Jordan; Syria will fall to us. We then bomb and move on and take Port Said, Alexandria and Sinai." David Ben-Gurion, May 1948, to the General Staff. From Ben-Gurion, A Biography, by Michael Ben-Zohar, Delacorte, New York 1978.

>"Jewish villages were built in the place of Arab villages. You do not even know the names of these Arab villages, and I do not blame you because geography books no longer exist... There is not a single place built in this country that did not have a former Arab population." - Moshe Dayan, address to the Technion, Haifa, reported in Haaretz, April 4, 1969.

>"We walked outside, Ben-Gurion accompanying us. Allon repeated his question, What is to be done with the Palestinian population?' Ben-Gurion waved his hand in a gesture which said 'Drive them out!'" Yitzhak Rabin, leaked censored version of Rabin memoirs, published in the New York Times, 23 October 1979.

>"Spirit the penniless population across the frontier by denying it employment... Both the process of expropriation and the removal of the poor must be carried out discreetly and circumspectly." Theodore Herzl, founder of the World Zionist Organization, speaking of the Arabs of Palestine,Complete Diaries, June 12, 1895 entry.

>"We will establish ourselves in Palestine whether you like it or not...You can hasten our arrival or you can equally retard it. It is however better for you to help us so as to avoid our constructive powers being turned into a destructive power which will overthrow the world." (Chaim Weizmann, Published in "Judische Rundschau," No. 4, 1920).


#### Antisemetic Fallacies As The Main Driver Of World War Two.

Next let’s briefly look at WWII. It is widely understood that the Treaty of Versailles forced upon the losing Germans after World War One had countless injustices, one of them being separating the German city of Danzig from the mainland by making it an enclave within, and largely controlled by, Poland. Most historians today and wise politicians during the lead-up to World War Two felt like Hitler’s demands that Danzig should be reunited with Germany were very reasonable and legitimate goals. For example, former US President Herbert Hoover criticized the Roosevelt Administration’s virulent anti-Hitler stance when he wrote:

>"Another action by Mr. Roosevelt was his influence upon the Poles not to negotiate the question of Danzig. The adamant attitude of the Poles against negotiations received support from the Washington Administration. The separation of the German city of Danzig from Germany, and the size of the Corridor at the time of the part Treaty of Versailles had long been a cause of agitation by the Germans. Both were a part of vengeance and there was merit in the German claims. [I had stated at one time that they should be corrected."](https://books.google.com/books?id=ugFyjRLHPzcC&pg=PT264&lpg=PT264&dq=%22Both+were+a+part+of+vengeance+and+there+was+merit+in+the+German+claims.+I+had+stated+at+one+time+that+they+should+be+corrected.&source=bl&ots=D8uixbrmaY&sig=ACfU3U01JzEYnEht8-U0Qw9VosNrjyhdPQ&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjE4vWvzvHsAhWniOAKHW-NC-0Q6AEwAHoECAgQAg#v=onepage&q=%22Both%20were%20a%20part%20of%20vengeance%20and%20there%20was%20merit%20in%20the%20German%20claims.%20I%20had%20stated%20at%20one%20time%20that%20they%20should%20be%20corrected.&f=false)

Why such defiance to Hitler’s reasonable demands? Because Hitler’s crass antisemitism, statements like “Don’t think you can fight racial tuberculosis without taking care to rid the nation of the carrier of that racial tuberculosis. This Jewish contamination will not subside”, the 1935 racist and antisemitic Nuremberg Laws, and the government sanctioned cruelty of events like Kristallnacht (November 9–10, 1938) where thousands of Jewish properties were vandalized, understandably led Jews and their civilized sympathetic supporters in the US and British governments to mistakenly see Hitler and Nazi Germany as an even more barbaric place than Stalin’s Soviet Union, and eventually unwilling to compromise on what were very reasonable demands that would have avoided the World War Two slaughter. In order to see how fellow homo sapiens fool themselves into total slaughter as in World War Two, we just have to look at the language they used to portray and polarize each other. Just like Hitler and the like-minded would portray Jews as something besides fellow homo sapiens. So would Jews in America and England portray Hitler and the Germans as something besides fellow homo sapiens. Here are a few statements from leading Jews at the time, long, long, long before the war broke out on Sept 1st, 1939 or Jews were sent to ghettos or concentration camps or even the Nuremberg Laws passed. In a radio broadcast which was also printed in the August 7th 1933 edition of the New York Times, prominent Jewish lawyer and civic leader Samuel Untermeyer mentioned the following:

>"Each of you, Jew and Gentile alike, who has not already enlisted in this sacred war should do so now and here. It is not sufficient that you should buy no goods made in Germany. You must refuse to deal with any merchant or shopkeeper who sells any German-made goods or who patronises German ships or shipping…. we will undermine the Hitler regime and bring the German people to their senses by destroying their export trade on which their very existence [depends."](http://www.anap88.com/sojustice.htm)

The same speech is full of fatalistic language, gross exaggerations, and maniacal good vs. evil characterizations of all Germans in general:

>"…the holy war in the cause of humanity in which we are embarked. Jews and non-Jews alike, for we are equally concerned that the work of centuries shall not be undone, and that civilization shall not be allowed to die. It is a war that must be waged unremittingly until the black clouds of bigotry, race hatred and fanaticism that have descended upon what was once Germany, but is now medieval Hitlerland, have been dispersed. If we will but enlist to a man and persist in our purpose, the bright sun of civilization will again shine upon Germany… …which has thereby been converted from a nation of culture into a veritable hell of cruel and savage beast… …We owe it not only to our persecuted brethren but to the entire world to now strike in self-defense a blow that will free humanity from a repetition of this incredible outrage. This time the Jews are the victims, next time it may be the Catholics or the Protestants… …Now or never must all the nations of the earth make common cause against the monstrous claim that the slaughter, starvation and annihilation, by a country that has reverted to barbarism, of its own innocent and defenseless citizens without rhyme, reason or excuse is an internal affair against which the rest of the world must stand idly by and not lift a hand in defense… …fiendish torture, cruelty and persecution that are being inflicted day by day upon these men, women and children, of the terrors of worse than death in which they are living…the world will confront a picture so fearful in its barbarous cruelty that the hell of war and the alleged Belgian atrocities will pale into insignificance as compared to this devilishly, deliberately, cold-bloodedly planned and already partially executed campaign for the extermination… …rescue these 600,000 human souls from the tortures of hell…this brutal, senseless, unprovoked assault upon [civilization."](http://www.anap88.com/sojustice.htm)

Over 5 years before the Second World War broke out, on January, 1934 Vladimir Jabotinsky, one of the most popular and influential Zionist Jews preached:

>“For months now the struggle against Germany is waged by each Jewish community, at each conference, in all our syndicates, and by each Jew all over the world. There is reason to believe that our part in this struggle has general value. We will trigger a spiritual and material war of all the world against Germany’s ambitions to become once again a great nation, to recover lost territories and colonies. But our Jewish interests demand the complete destruction of Germany. Collectively and individually, the German nation is a threat to us Jews.”

These sorts of quasi-religious statements full of fatalistic language, and maniacal and simplistic good vs. evil characterizations-ideology frequently blasted on leading newspapers in the USA and England for about 6 years, and their influence on sympathetic politicians, especially the already fiercely anti-German Roosevelt administration (Roosevelt had been Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Navy during World War One), coupled with the understandable increasing antisemitism in Germany would play the leading role in getting large groups of fellow homo sapiens to needlessly slaughter each other. 

With the exception of Hitler's public harassment of Jews, which to some degree was a reaction to Jewry's sort of propaganda and economic war against his government, which of course was an understandable reaction to Hitler's crass antisemitism and millennia-long history of European antisemitism, Hitler's Germany was far, far, far from the silly images of goose-stepping soldiers and a population under some 'evil' spell. The Third Reich was overwhelmingly a Christian nation which promoted traditional conservative values of piety, the Church, and that inevitable watchful eye of an ever-present God that motivates people to do 'good' and respect the Ten Commandments, etc. According to historian Richard J. Evans by 1939, 95% of Germans still called themselves Protestant or Catholic, and so did the majority of the members of the National Socialist Party. Hitler mentioned in a speech on October 27th 1928 that "We tolerate no one in our ranks who attacks the ideas of Christianity…in fact our movement is Christian." Hitler and his fellow ideologues did try to influence and control the church to various degrees leading to considerable bad blood between the Nazi government and the various religious structures, but the bottom line is that the general character of average Germans was still heavily influenced by Christianity and the worldly civilized values Germans have always been relative leaders in. A perfect example of the power of the Church and the morals of the German public can be seen in the Church's opposition to Hitler's euthanasia program that killed the mentally retarded. As knowledge of this program became known the Church strongly opposed it and Hitler put an end to it due to such 'public' pressure. As Stalin's daughter, Svetlana Alliluyeva, who caused a worldwide sensation when she defected from the Soviet Union in March 1967 said "There was no 'public' in the U.S.S.R". The atheistic nature of the Soviet Union obviously played a role in making it so much easier to discard human life and thus be tremendously deadlier. By the time the war had broken out on September 1st, 1939, Hitler had been harassing Jews in Germany for about 6 years in order to get them to leave, but such harassment was incomparable to the death and terror Stalin had already caused in the Soviet Union. For example, due to the forced collectivization of farming and grain requisitions imposed on the western part of the Soviet Union, especially the Ukraine, about six million people starved to death in 1932–3 in a famine referred to as Holodomor which means 'killing by hunger' in Ukrainian. "…millions of people are starving in a country that could be a breadbasket for the world" said Hitler in a speech on March 2nd, 1933 (Snyder, 2010, p. 61). In his book "Bloodlands: Europe Between Hitler and Stalin" Timothy Snyder compares the lethality of both regimes prior to war in 1938:

>"Soviet terror, at this point, was not only on a far greater scale; it was incomparably more lethal. Nothing in Hitler's Germany remotely resembled the execution of nearly four hundred thousand people in eighteen months, as under Order 00447 in the Soviet Union. In the years 1937 and 1938, 267 people were sentenced to death in Nazi Germany, as compared to 378,326 death sentences within the kulak operation alone in the Soviet Union. Again, given the difference in population size, the chances that a Soviet citizen would be executed in the kulak action were about seven hundred times greater than the chances that a German citizen would be sentenced to death in Nazi Germany for any offense." [(Snyder, pp. 86–88)](https://books.google.com/books?id=maEfAQAAQBAJ&pg=PA86&lpg=PA86&dq=%22at+this+point,+was+not+only+on+a+far+greater+scale;+it+was+incomparably+more+lethal%22&source=bl&ots=liPlx5p_A7&sig=ACfU3U25bGpYgmk20P15uHsK320HsbgTLg&hl=en&sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwi4yrKAz_HsAhXxkOAKHSe7BhsQ6AEwAHoECAgQAg#v=onepage&q=%22at%20this%20point%2C%20was%20not%20only%20on%20a%20far%20greater%20scale%3B%20it%20was%20incomparably%20more%20lethal%22&f=false)


Bottom line. You were far better off being a Jew in pre-war Hitler's Germany than an average citizen in the Soviet Union, or a black person in the USA. In Stalin's Soviet Union it was unheard of for a politically disliked group of people to simply be encouraged to leave. More likely they would have been immediately relocated by force with many shot and sent to concentration camps. Keep in mind that throughout all this time German citizens are well aware of the orchestrated vilification campaign by organized Jewry and Joseph Goebbles would constantly remind them. 

Again, as Jabotinsky said 5 years before the start of the war. "Jewish interests demand the complete destruction of Germany. Collectively and individually, the German nation is a threat to us Jews."

Understandably, American Jews' cry for war against Hitler would reach fever pitch and play an important role in pushing the U.S. to war. On February 9th 1938, almost 7 months before the outbreak of war, the Polish Ambassador in Washington, Count Jerzy Potocki, reported back home to the Foreign Minister in Warsaw on the Jewish role in influencing American foreign policy:

>"The pressure of the Jews on President Roosevelt and on the State Department is becoming ever more powerful … The Jews are right now the leaders in creating a war psychosis which would plunge the entire world into war and bring about general catastrophe. This mood is becoming more and more apparent. …in their definition of democratic states, the Jews have also created real chaos: they have mixed together the idea of democracy and communism and have above all raised the banner of burning hatred against Nazism. This hatred has become a frenzy. It is propagated everywhere and by every means: in theaters, in the cinema, and in the press. The Germans are portrayed as a nation living under the arrogance of Hitler which wants to conquer the whole world and drown all of humanity in an ocean of blood. In conversations with Jewish press representatives I have repeatedly come up against the inexorable and convinced view that war is inevitable. This international Jewry exploits every means of propaganda to oppose any tendency towards any kind of consolidation and understanding between nations. In this way, the conviction is growing steadily but surely in public opinion here that the Germans and their satellites, in the form of fascism, are enemies who must be subdued by the 'democratic world.'"

Notice how the above applies to the portrayal of Putin today, more on this later. 

After the war broke out, Chaim Weizmann mentioned the obvious: "this war is our war". In a speech on December 3, 1942, in New York:

>"We are not denying and are not afraid to confess that this war is our war and that it is waged for the liberation of Jewry… Stronger than all fronts together is our front, that of Jewry. We are not only giving this war our financial support on which the entire war production is based, we are not only providing our full propaganda power which is the moral energy that keeps this war going. The guarantee of victory is predominantly based on weakening the enemy forces, on destroying them in their own country, within the resistance. And we are the Trojan horses in the enemy's fortress. Thousands of Jews living in Europe constitute the principal factor in the destruction of our enemy. There, our front is a fact and the most valuable aid for victory."

We should also quote from a marvelous speech given by American hero at the time, the first man to fly across the Atlantic Ocean, Charles Lindbergh. On Sept. 11th, 1941, a year after the war had started but before the U.S. would join, he gave a speech where he mentioned the following (bold emphasis mine):

>"When this war started in Europe, it was clear that the American people were solidly opposed to entering it. Why shouldn't we be? We had the best defensive position in the world; we had a tradition of independence from Europe; and **the one time we did take part in a European war left European problems unsolved, and debts to America unpaid.National polls showed that when England and France declared war on Germany, in 1939, less than 10 percent of our population favored a similar course for America.** But there were various groups of people, here and abroad, whose interests and beliefs necessitated the involvement of the United States in the war. I shall point out some of these groups tonight, and outline their methods of procedure. In doing this, I must speak with the utmost frankness, for in order to counteract their efforts, we must know exactly who they are. The three most important groups who have been pressing this country toward war are the British, the Jewish and the Roosevelt administration…. As you all know, we were left with the debts of the last European war; and unless we are more cautious in the future than we have been in the past, we will be left with the debts of the present case. If it were not for her hope that she can make us responsible for the war financially, as well as militarily, **I believe England would have negotiated a peace in Europe many months ago, and be better off for doing so.** England has devoted, and will continue to devote every effort to get us into the war. We know that she spent huge sums of money in this country during the last war in order to involve us. Englishmen have written books about the cleverness of its use. We know that England is spending great sums of money for propaganda in America during the present war… The second major group I mentioned is the Jewish. It is not difficult to understand why Jewish people desire the overthrow of Nazi Germany. The persecution they suffered in Germany would be sufficient to make bitter enemies of any race. No person with a sense of the dignity of mankind can condone the persecution of the Jewish race in Germany. But no person of honesty and vision can look on their pro-war policy here today without seeing the dangers involved in such a policy both for us and for them. **Instead of agitating for war, the Jewish groups in this country should be opposing it in every possible way for they will be among the first to feel its consequences.** Tolerance is a virtue that depends upon peace and strength. History shows that it cannot survive war and devastations. A few far-sighted Jewish people realize this and stand opposed to intervention. But the majority still do not." 

Such reasonable and unfortunately prophetic statements led to accusations that Lindbergh was an anti-Semite even though, as his wife would tell a journalist in 1980, "in the 45 years I lived with him I never heard him make a remark against Jews, not a crack or a joke, neither did any of my children."

Sadly, by the time the US was firmly in the war, the apes had already detached themselves from reality to the point where Hitler and the "Nazis" were not fellow homo sapiens. The naive good vs. evil maniacal mythical worldview that understandably many Jews were inadvertently spreading had already affected most Americans. Once you reach such a level of tribalistic "good vs. evil" thinking, absurd lies and myths would be believed by many. Consider the following. The sudden outbreak of World War One gave little time for war-time hysteria, propaganda and vilification to do its job, yet a few years of propaganda by some British newspapermen and politicians had turned World War One Germans into Belgian-children’s-arms-ripping-militaristic-Huns. The Second World War, especially given Hitler’s propaganda war with Jews would give 6 pre-war years plus another 5 hysterical war-torn years for anti-German vilification-hysteria to reach stratospheric levels. Unlike at the end of World War One where besides the British hunger blockade the civilian German population was unharmed and able to partake in post-war dialogue and anti-German propaganda quickly subsided, post-World War Two Germany was completely destroyed with a vengeful occupation that made it impossible to counter-balance the vilification onslaught which reached levels where any atrocity story, no matter how outlandish, especially if it pertained to Jews, could be made (or fabricated-exaggerated). Consider what is in all likelihood the biggest lie ever told by a US President to the American public. On October 27th 1941 (40 days before the Japanese bombing of Pearl Harbor brought USA into World War Two) Franklin Roosevelt made a nationally broadcasted speech where he told the American public that Hitler wanted to conquer Latin America and the US, abolish all faiths and setup a global Nazi Church. FDR mentioned:

>“Hitler has often protested that his plans for conquest do not extend across the Atlantic Ocean. But his submarines and raiders prove otherwise. So does the entire design of his new world order. For example, I have in my possession a secret map made in Germany by Hitler’s government — by the planners of the new world order. It is a map of South America and a part of Central America, as Hitler proposes to reorganize it. Today in this area there are 14 separate countries. The geographical experts of Berlin, however, have ruthlessly obliterated all existing boundary lines; and have divided South America into five vassal states, bringing the whole continent under their domination. And they have also so arranged it that the territory of one of these new puppet states includes the Republic of Panama and our great life line — the Panama Canal. That is his plan. It will never go into effect. This map makes clear the Nazi design not only against South America but against the United States itself. 

It is somewhat easy to understand how the above statements might seem credible to a public constantly bombarded with war-time hysteria, but what Roosevelt mentioned next and the American public’s belief of it is remarkable:

>"Your Government was in its possession another document made in Germany by Hitler’s government. It is a detailed plan, which, for obvious reasons, the Nazis did not wish and do not wish to publicize just yet, but which they are ready to impose a little later on a dominated world — if Hitler wins. It is a plan to abolish all existing religions — Protestant, Catholic, Mohammedan, Hindu, Buddhist, and Jewish alike. The property of all churches will be seized by the Reich and its puppets. The cross and all other symbols of religion are to be forbidden. The clergy are to be forever silenced under penalty of the concentration camps, where even now so many fearless men are being tortured because they have placed God above Hitler. In the place of the churches of our civilization, there is to be set up an international Nazi church — a church which will be served by orators sent out by the Nazi government. In the place of the Bible, the words of Mein Kampf will be imposed and enforced as Holy Writ. And in place of the cross of Christ will be put two symbols — the swastika and the naked sword. A god of blood and iron will take the place of the God of love and mercy. Let us well ponder that [statement which I have made tonight.”](https://www.fdrlibrary.org/documents/356632/405112/afdr241.mp3/05c0cc60-89a8-478f-a242-44dd124736e8)

Replace the Bible and all religions for an international Nazi church???!!!? When a whopping 95% of Germans were Catholics or Protestants? Again, it seems hard to believe that the slightly smarter apes could believe such absurdities, but, we are what we are. Needless to say, just like with World War One, the ape-hatreds understandably led to evolution of a German or "Nazi" "identity" that was more maniacal than the World War One "Huns". Obviously much of the Western world still sees the "Nazis" and Hitler, not as fellow homo sapiens who believed certain erroneous myths to varoous degrees (Socialism, antisemitism, etc.) , but as mythical meniacal, well, Nazis! Notice how the evil Hitler-Nazis above were already super evil, long long long before the Holocaust. Actually, it was the already maniacal non-homo sapiens portrayal of Hitler and Germans which made it easy for the Holocaust and potential related exaggerations to emerge. 

Communism, just like antisemitism, is the result of numerous intellectual errors. Labeling Communists as “evil” or crazy or psychopaths is NOT what led to its relative demise. It was Menger and his intellectual descendants of the so-called ‘Austrian School’ like Mises and Hayek who managed to help enough people overcome the fallacies which led to the Communist tyrannies[(summary of how they did this here)](https://libertyspeaks.world/how-the-austrian-school-economists-saved-civilization-via-the-publication-of-f-a-hayeks-the-road-to-serfdom-and-the-need-for-a-repeat/). Similarly, simply labeling misguided “antisemites” as evil or irrational is NOT what will end antisemitism and emerging polarizations and wars. We need both Jews and misguided antisemites to overcome the fallacies and abandon tribalistic vilifications.


