

#### Solving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and Russia-Ukraine war: A golden Opportunity for world-wide free-market economic education


The chaos in Israel/Palestine as well as the Russia-Ukraine war is not only something we must solve in order to prevent the ideological polarizations which will lead to the Final World War, but also gives us a great opportunity to become beacons of economic education. Only fellow freemarketeers understand how freedom unites people and shapes a culture of mutual respect free of tribalisms and adversarial "identities". It is up to us to create such beacons and as Mises writes "enlighten the misguided many."

So without further ado let us propose the following as a simple starting point. The purpose of this plan is not even to resolve the conflict, the conflict will resolve itself as enough people in the area see how freedom, when properly understood and applied, can solve this messes and quickly get us on a path to unimaginable prosperity. Basically, since economic ignorance leads to antisemitism which leads to Zionism in its current separatist-ethnocentric way and led to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and all that grows from it, we get rid of the economic ignorance which gets rid of the antisemitism which will evolve the character of Jews-Zionism in a manner where what used to be separatist-controlling-ethnocentrism becomes welcoming brotherly love and everyone lives with equal rights in a state free of the theocratic ethnocentrism and kumbaya we reach world peace. What we propose below should not even be seen as a solution, but a framework which we can use to eventually solve the problem and educate everyone about the benefits of free-markets. 

We propose a single country-state with a *mostly* NON-Democratic government where everyone has equal rights. Name and flag can be determined in some future time but should obviously not single out or exclude any group of people. Two-state solutions are based on old hatreds-ideologies and tribalistic monkey "identity" politics and are insulting to humanity and what we are capable of and should expect for our future. [The government should be minimal in the sense that](https://mises.org/wire/voluntaryist-constitution) it should only be involved in protecting private property and act as a sort of default set of rules-guidelines when more local communities do not define them, and should clearly be forbidden from ever going into education, elderly care, any kind of socialized medicine, etc. This is NOT up to democratic change and is important so that Jews will not fear a larger Muslim population eventually taking their freedoms away, or their wealth, which would definitely be the case if they were forced to pay for massive public sector welfare-state-bureaucracies attempting to provide equal access to education, health services, elderly care, etc. that the economically-ignorant-though-well-intentioned-public always falls for. Jews and Muslims and Christians, everyone, will have the obvious freedom to pool their wealth to create their own privately funded educational systems-charities and be free to discriminate if they so wish based on religion, sex, whatever their customs or free individuals agree upon. The hyper-religious Jews who want to define which homo sapiens is or is not a Jew, marriage customs, etc. can create their contracts-laws associate-disassociate with whoever they want, they just can’t coerce others. Palestinians who were expelled during various wars and their descendants will obviously have the right to go back to the lands they were expelled from. If the lands have since been developed a simple starting solution to the potential conflicts and a way to provide some restitution to the Palestinians and help get this area on a rapid path to amazing prosperity is as follows:

Jews keep all lands and homes and buildings they currently have developed and are clearly being used for productive purposes, even the settlements in the West Bank. My guess is that this actual amount of land is probably no more than 35% percent of the land. Then we take the other 65% percent, and using some simple software we distribute it to all Palestinians and their descendants who were dispossessed thus privatizing most of the country. A similar effort should be made so that Jews who were expelled from European and Muslim countries can regain their lost property.

So far this simple framework accomplishes the following:

Jews should be pretty happy, no fear of a demographic majority that can then interfere with your freedom and-or property, no need to pay for the education of non-Jews or other Jews for that matter. The more religious Jews who have a super strong connection to the land can live, travel, buy land everywhere. No draconian uprooting or potentially economically devastating disruptions.

Palestinians regain their freedom and land. Since this minimal state will have minimal-no taxes or regulations it will quickly blossom in prosperity. The land will quickly increase in value, providing much deserved compensation for the Palestinians. The entire country will skyrocket in socioeconomic prosperity and serve as an example-beacon of progress. Loudly clamoring for a solution along these lines brings us free-marketeers tremendous advantages. We will be the only ones actually making noise and bringing attention to a rather simple-and-thus-easy-to-spread viral plan. It gives us an opportunity to teach and sort of piggyback basic economics as we explain to people how prosperity will skyrocket helping us in our more ambitious world-wide free-market educational efforts, which is obviously the key to everything. As things are right now, such a solution seems impossible, but with clever marketing we can succeed at spreading the necessary ideas so all parties can be persuaded without any coercive-violent-troublesome mandates. If we are to reach a quick peace and prosperity we must first have a simple plan for it and people who believe it can be achieved. We simply have no choice, we either make Misesians of everyone, or we blow ourselves up.

Regarding the Russia-Ukraine war. Easy. Instead of having either Putin’s or Zelensky’s governments decide how people in the contested areas run their lives, we should allow the people themselves decide how they do so and as with the Zionist error use this chaos as an opportunity to educate the people there and people all over the world how freedom, self-rule, decentralization, and the emerging competition of ideas that emerges from this is the key to socioeconomic harmony. We propose the following:

1. Immediate cease fire and complete demilitarization of all contested areas. Russia’s military leaves and Ukraine’s military does not occupy the area.
2. A new country or political-legal entity is created and adopts a well-thought-out constitution which seeks to maximize freedom and the emerging peace and competition of ideas that emerges from it. Again, [‘The Voluntaryist Constitution’](https://mises.org/wire/voluntaryist-constitution) is a great starting point.
3. This new country should have no restrictions regarding immigration, travel, or business with citizens from Ukraine, EU, or Russian federation.
4. The UN needs to have an internationally recognized and respected way for groups of people to have the freedom to secede from large and bloated governmental bureaucracies and create their own governments so that we move away from coercive and competition immune governmental bodies and we introduce competition in governance.


