Carl Menger and his ‘Austrian School of Economics’ showed us how Homo sapiens is essentially living in a movie-like Matrix, or as the great 19th century British philosopher who Darwin once referred to as ‘twenty times my superior’, Herbert Spencer, cleverly referred to as ‘The Social Organism’. This matrix-organism and the “systems” that enable it like language, governments, law, economic competition, and money are similar to what the respiratory, nervous, digestive, etc. systems are to cells in a multicellular organism. “Systems” that enable higher levels of order and cooperation and were NOT designed by the cells or people, but by an evolutionary process largely independent of their (cells or man) design or reason.

Menger writes:

“Language, religion, law, even the state itself, and, to mention a few economic social phenomena, the phenomena of markets, of competition, of money, and numerous other social structures are already met with in epochs of history where we cannot properly speak of a purposeful activity of the community as such directed at establishing them.”

Just like via an evolutionary process we can easily hypothesize about the emergence and workings of the biological order, Menger rightly felt like the social order should also be studied in an evolutionary manner. He writes:

“Now if state, society, economy, etc., are conceived of as organisms, or as structures analogous to them, the notion of following directions of research in the realm of social phenomena similar to those followed in the realm of organic nature readily suggests itself.”

Thus Menger’s intellectual descendent, 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics F.A. Hayek summarizes:

“We understand now that all enduring structures above the level of the simplest atoms, and up to the brain and society, are the results of, and can be explained only in terms of, processes of selective evolution.”

Without Menger and Spencer’s evolutionary insights we naively focus on the actions of individuals while overlooking the far more important evolutionary factors which are ultimately responsible for the ideas and complex circumstances which get them to act, as Spencer tells us regarding how we see the social order and naively focus on the individuals overlooking the more important evolutionary factors. He writes:

”This vast social organization, the life of which we severally aid and which makes our lives possible by satisfying our wants, is just as much a naturally-developed product as is the language by which the wants are communicated. No State-authority, no king or council, made the one any more than the other. The ridiculous Carlylean theory of the Great Man and his achievements, absolutely ignores this genesis of social structures and functions which has been going on through the ages. The deeds of the ruler who modifies the actions of his generation, it confounds with the evolution of the great body-politic itself, of which those actions are but incidents. It is as though a child, seeing for the first time a tree from which a gardener is here cutting off a branch and there pruning away smaller parts, should regard the gardener, the only visible agent, as the creator of the whole structure: knowing nothing about the agency of sun and rain, air and soil. Undeveloped intelligences cannot recognize the results of slow, silent, invisible causes.”

When a lion takes over a pride and kills the cubs so that the females will once again be ready to mate, we don’t say that the lion is “evil”, we rightly understand the complex evolutionary factors leading to such actions. It is likewise important to look at our socioeconomic disasters using an evolutionary lens that is free of “blame” and full of sympathy and understanding. As Mises tells us:

“Neither as judges allotting praise and blame nor as avengers seeking out the guilty should we face the past. We seek truth, not guilt; we want to know how things came about to understand them, not to issue condemnations.”

Hitler, Lenin, Stalin, Mao, Churchill, Roosevelt, Fauci, etc. were not “evil”, which is itself a mythical linguistic construct inherited from more religious times, they were fellow homo sapiens adored by their respective masses who absorbed horrendous ideas, or better said, myths, propagated by scholars arising from the complexity of the economy as in the case of Socialism (Hitler-Lenin-Mao-Roosevelt-etc.), and the biochemical order as in the case of CovidMania and resulting coercive lockdowns and damaging vaccinations and more (Fauci). As Hayek tells us:

”It is necessary to realize that the sources of many of the most harmful agents in this world are often not evil men but high-minded idealists, and that in particular the foundations of totalitarian barbarism have been laid by honourable and well-meaning scholars who never recognized the offspring they produced.”

Hayek again:

”Most people are still unwilling to face the most alarming lesson of modern history: that the greatest crimes of our time have been committed by governments that had the enthusiastic support of millions of people who were guided by moral impulses. It is simply not true that Hitler or Mussolini, Lenin or Stalin, appealed only to the worst instincts of their people: they also appealed to some of the feelings which also dominate contemporary democracies.”

Let us very briefly apply “The Austrian’s” wisdom to our Jew-Gentile misunderstandings and emerging conflicts like World War Two, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and more. We begin by summarizing some of the wisdom of ‘The Austrians’ regarding how the socioeconomic order works and has evolved in an evolutionary manner.

“Processes of selective evolution” or ‘natural selection’ in general can be said to have created two mechanisms for creating two types of orders-”enduring structures”, biological and social. The biological order is created via the well-known mechanism of ‘biological evolution’ with genes being like the sentences which store the information necessary to create-coordinate life-order. Mutations cause new genes and thus new information to arise which leads to a different life-form which is then ‘naturally selected’ as it inadvertently competes with others, with the winner reproducing more and thus passing on more copies of the better-adapted-”fitter” genes-information-design to future generations.

The information that coordinates the social order emerges and spreads via economic competition which itself emerges from the tradition of private property.

Free people are motivated to discover the best information with which to increase the rate at which they transform or reorder the matter they exclusively control (their private property) to create wealth. Most of us transform our bodies in a manner that maximizes the value of the wealth in terms of labor, services, or products we produce and then trade with companies (employers) or the public. From our freedom to use or transform our ‘private property’ emerges the ‘freedom to trade’ it with anyone in the entire planet which inadvertently transforms mankind into a global supercomputer where companies are motivated to innovate and learn-copy from each other(competitors) thus inadvertently cooperate to create and spread superior information and subsequent social order throughout the world. For example, perhaps a Honda engineer in Tokyo, Japan invented power door locks, and thanks to the ‘economic competition’ which emerges from people’s freedom to only trade their wealth for what they calculate to be best, BMW, Ford, Toyota and other competitors had to also copy the power door locks idea and thus inadvertently spread superior information and subsequent order throughout the world. It is our freedom as consumers to trade our life-and-order-sustaining wealth for what we calculate to be best, and if we have superior information as producers to go into business, which motivates existing businesses(competitors) to innovate-compete-copy-learn. Just like in the Olympics we can discover the best athletes in the world due to global competition, so does having the ‘freedom to trade’ with everyone in the world allows the best ideas to compete and spread globally thus ensuring the best possible global order. Via advertising, competitors are motivated to spread the potential usefulness and superiority of their products-ideas as well as the defects-inferiority of their competitors thus accelerating the need to compete-copy-spread superior information and subsequent order. As cost-cutting ideas emerge and inevitably spread via competition leading relative prices to continuously fall, new profitable ideas easily arise and once again spread via competition in an endless cycle of knowledge generation-innovation. For example, computers were once very expensive, but once the price of making them came down enough, people easily realized that every home could have them, which gave birth to our computerized world and the Internet and all the great things that flow from it. The more wealth is produced, the more wealth must be offered in exchange for labor as companies compete against each other for the labor they need which helps explain why the economic pie grows for everyone. Morals are ways of acting; they too are knowledge which also emerges and spreads via economic competition to considerable degrees. It is hard-working, tolerant, courteous people, who thanks to competition, inevitably motivate everyone else to be likewise. As Hayek writes:

“Competition is, after all, always a process in which a small number makes it necessary for larger numbers to do what they do not like, be it to work harder, to change habits, or to devote a degree of attention, continuous application, or regularity to their work which without competition would not be needed.”

As millions of Italians, Britons, Germans, Jews and others from all over the world came to America, it was ultimately the competition which grows from ‘private property’ and thus individual liberty which stripped these people of their otherwise nationalistic, ethnocentric, tribalistic “identities” and evolved what came to be seen as the classic American character of wanting to be seen as a reputable and honest businessman or professional who treats everyone with respect and wears a business suit as opposed to older ethnocentric attires. Thus freedom and emerging “competitive knowledge discovery”, as opposed to leading to chaos, is what 1) enables and motivates the discovery and spread of superior information and subsequent social order, 2) civilizes us, 3) protects us from being coerced into doing something we don’t want and thus allows us to live our lives as we wish, 4) and is vital for discovering the truth. Freedom is the ultimate algorithm!

The role of governments and thus coercion should be minimized because governmental or ‘public sector’ bureaucracies, being coercive monopolies which get their life or order-sustaining wealth through taxes and compulsion are immune to the competitive-information-spreading incentives which motivate private sector entities to keep up with the competition in terms of information and hustle. Government plans can’t work if people are free to not go along with or fund them, so they inevitably require compulsion. The former Soviet Union had plenty of highly educated scientists and ‘experts’ whose plans required the coercion of millions as still happens in Cuba, but they were thoroughly crushed by free Americans and their ‘competitive knowledge discovery’. The “classic” night-time image below helps explain the difference between competitive-private-free orders and monopolistic-government-coerced orders. Keep your eye on how information arises and spreads via competition and continuously restructures the social order.


Government regulations are coercive competitionless monopoly information which is not subject to continuous improvement and replacement via competition so they paralyze entire industries slowing down ‘competitive knowledge discovery’, driving up costs (more lawyers-regulators-bureaucrats), and potentially making criminals out of people who harm nobody but just prefer to do things differently. Compare the increasingly regulated-paralyzed healthcare sector which has grown from consuming less than 5% of the economic pie in 1960 to over 20% today, to the free-competitive IT sector where even the poorest of Americans can afford rapidly improving amazing cell phones and technology. In the graph below one can see how the more regulated and thus competition immune a sector is (Hospital Services) the more expensive it becomes.


Let us now briefly discuss how the above mechanism of ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ and emerging ‘Social Organism’, as with language, arose inadvertently without man’s design via a relatively blind process of ‘cultural evolution’ via ‘group selection’. Essentially 20,000 years ago there was a sort of petri dish of groups of people and their respective cultures-softwares, and ‘natural selection’-competition selected those cultures or groups whose sort of ‘cultural mutations’ led to a more productive-fitter-powerful social order, with respect for private property and thus individual freedom and emerging business culture ultimately being the most important tradition given the ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ that inadvertently emerged from it. A great example of this evolutionary process was the ‘Protestant Reformation’. For centuries the Catholic Church’s traditions held immense coercive-monopoly-competitionless power which prevented or retarded individual freedom and emerging ‘competitive knowledge discovery’. In the early 1500s, among other religious reinterpretations, Martin Luther preached that indulgences (payments to the Catholic Church to help one go to heaven) were unnecessary, that a person could go to heaven by believing in Christ without the Catholic Church’s approval, and that the Bible itself, not the Church’s edicts-interpretations was what mattered. This helped reduce the coercive-monopoly power of the Catholic Church and spark a pro-freedom and thus emergent ‘competitive knowledge discovery’. Instead of people thinking and producing for the never-changing Priesthood, people now gained the freedom to think and produce for each other, leading to ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ and skyrocketing rates of innovation-production-prosperity in Europe-Christendom. Now, very important! Did Martin Luther “reason” that his religious reinterpretations would accelerate ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ leading to global Capitalism and Homo Sapiens’ recent sky-rocketing prosperity? Of course not! Just like solitary cells millions of years ago inadvertently via an evolutionary process created the respiratory-circulatory-nervous-etc. “systems” that led to multicellular organisms without ‘designing them’, so is the free-market and Capitalism, to borrow the insightful phrase from Adam Ferguson, “indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design.”, or as Carl Menger writes, it arose “as the unintended product of historical development”. Hayek elaborates:

“We have never designed our economic system. We were not intelligent enough for that. We have stumbled into it and it has carried us to unforeseen heights and given rise to ambitions which may yet lead us to destroy it.”

By the late 1800s, the bewildering complexity of modern cities coupled with, per above, man not understanding how the ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ that creates civilization “emerges” from “private property” and thus personal liberty since this amazing mechanism had been designed, not by clever men, but by an evolutionary process we didn’t even really understand at the time, people understandably fell for all the usual anti-Capitalist, pro-Socialist-Nationalist central planning fallacies which still dominate popular thinking to this day. Freedom was increasingly seen as leading to chaos and ‘social injustice’ while competition immune government coercion by “experts” was seen as a superior alternative. The environment was ripe for the emergence of a new mythology, Socialism-Communism-Statism-Scientism. Eventually some smarter ape would describe these fallacies-myths in a manner that was bound to go viral and that is what happened with Karl Marx and his bite-sized ‘Communist Manifesto’ where Marx writes:

“the theory of the Communists may be summed up in the single sentence: Abolition of private property”… “Abolition of the family!”

Via Lenin’s Bolshevik revolution in Russia (1918) and other ‘Great Leaders’ throughout the world (Mao-China, Castro-Cuba, Pol Pot-Cambodia, FDR-USA, Hitler-Germany), many created massive central-planning-coercive bureaucracies that destroyed or hampered ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ and thus their own socioeconomic order that was sustained by it. Hayek summarizes the rise-fall of Communist mythology:

“Among the founders of religions over the last two thousand years, many opposed property and the family. But the only religions that have survived are those which support property and the family. Thus the outlook for communism, which is both anti-property and anti-family(and also anti-religion), is not promising. For it is, I believe, itself a religion which had its time, and which is now declining rapidly. In communist and socialist countries we are watching how the natural selection of religious beliefs disposes of the maladapted.”

Having spent most of our evolutionary history as tribal apes, we have simply not evolved to intuitively understand the recently emerged evolutionary forces that create the social order, the vital need for freedom and privatization, and the immense harm that too much government can do. Tribal warfare, political infighting, coercing each other, rape, and ‘The law of the jungle’, are things we have been doing for millions of years and are somewhat intuitive, commercial society and understanding the aforementioned economic concepts which have been around for less than a few thousand is not. Hayek summarizes:

“…man’s instincts…were not made for the kinds of surroundings, and for the numbers, in which he now lives. They were adapted to life in the small roving bands or troops in which the human race and its immediate ancestors evolved during the few million years while the biological constitution of homo sapiens was being formed.”

The Dodo bird quickly went extinct because it had not evolved to recognize humans as potential dangers, we similarly just line up for ‘central planning’ and government coordinated self-destruction over and over. Notice how the biggest companies or ‘private sector orders’ in the world like Amazon, Apple, Walmart, Google and Microsoft, which hire and efficiently coordinate the actions of millions of fellow homo sapiens across the world regardless of age, sex, religion or race, do not force anyone to buy their products or coerce anyone in any way and have no army or tribalistic and patriotic flag salutations. They spend all of their time peacefully innovating and copying each other’s innovations thus inadvertently spreading superior information and subsequent social order. Yet the human dodos hate the free private sector and love their coercive ‘central planners’, “great leaders”, and coercive monopolistic governmental structures which make it more difficult to overcome inferior ideas and also reinforces some tribal ‘Identity’ (Jews, Russians, Chinese, Americans, Cubans, etc.) from which inevitably an ‘us vs. them’ mentality emerges.

The above insights are the key to understanding how with have this technologically advanced complex world, with mindbogglingly complex airplanes, microchips, the Internet and so on, yet remain so economically ignorant and tribalistic, with the planet littered with nuclear weapons and “experts” and the masses believing we need them, and a clearly senile Joe Biden as President of the United States. If “reason” really played the significant role most of us assume, none of the latter three would be happening. The fact that today hardly anyone in the world really understands the vital link between private property and thus freedom and civilization is further proof of how the entire social order is the result, not of our reason, but of an evolutionary process. As Hayek writes with respect to private property:

”…I am quite convinced nobody invented it for a known purpose, and to me the proof of this is that even now hardly anybody yet understands what the advantages of private property and the market society are.”

Hayek writes:

“[to men] the market economy is largely incomprehensible…and its results seem to them irrational and immoral. They often see in it merely an arbitrary structure maintained by some sinister power.”

Who is that ‘sinister power’? Each group of economically ignorant homo sapiens depending on their history and numerous circumstances mistakenly identifies a different boogeyman. Since the recent and rapid evolution of the free-market-Capitalism occurred in Europe, understandably so for much of the third world and non-whites, it is “the white man” and his “exploitative Capitalism” and-or “racism”. There is of course, the “evil corporations”, “the rich-CEOs”, “greed”, “sexism”, “minorities”, “immigrants”, etc. . It is as if we are fooled into believing that just because the social order is the result of human action, that our problems are likewise the result of conscious planning or plotting by fellow slightly smarter apes. They are not. They are overwhelmingly the result of economic ignorance and the order-destroying central planning bureaucracies the human dodos create. Next we deal with one group of people, or better said, a culture or “identity” where once again economic ignorance leads to their being mistaken as some “sinister power” with disastrous world-wide consequences. The Jews.

Whether one homo sapiens grows up to “identify as” a Jew or a Christian or a Muslim, or a Russian or an American, it all obviously comes down to having parents and other surrounding homo sapiens inadvertently program you with such an “identity”. These “identities” are evolved and NOT designed. It is as erroneous to say that Jews “invented” Judaism, as it is to say that Germans invented the German language. It is also an error to say that the Catholic Church in the 1400s was a ‘conspiracy’ of Popes and clergy to control the masses. Sadly naïve thinkers who have no familiarity with the evolution of culture and the economy understandably see ‘conspiracy’ everywhere, which is obviously prevalent among so-called ‘anti-Semites’ who naively confuse inadvertent Jewish influence emerging from complex evolutionary factors with sinister conspiracies.

We have to cut a few corners and fast forward from about 100,000 years ago, where there were thousands of little tribes and their respective cultures-software-“identities”, to about 2,000 years ago when some of these groups were being integrated-absorbed into growing empires. So we got Jews, one of these many ethnocentric groups-”identities”. Jewish software inherited the myth that they were ‘God’s chosen people’ and the succinct 10 commandments which were essentially very good ways or algorithms to run society and proved themselves in the stability and cohesiveness of Jews. Then a Jew by the name of Jesus says he is the son of God and a sort of cultural mutation of Judaism in the form of Christianity emerges. Christian culture-software-identity lost the ethnocentrism that Judaism contains (generally speaking your mother has to be Jewish) which encouraged members to proselytize and rapidly grow in numbers, spreading the great-viral-simple “Ten Commandments”, winning converts who are not supposed to kill each other thus trade relatively peacefully, inadvertently helping spread more freedom and emerging ‘competitive knowledge discovery’. If we look at Christianity, some of its rules which differed from what was more mainstream at the time and inadvertently led to its growth were things like the prohibition of infanticide, condemnation of divorce, incest, marital infidelity and polygamy. In the Greco-Roman world where Christianity emerged, infanticide, especially of girls, was a common and accepted practice leading to populations of more males than females. For example, there were 131 males per 100 females in the city of Rome, and 140 males per 100 females in Italy, Asia Minor, and North Africa. The prohibition of infanticide would help Christian populations grow faster. These values-rules coupled with the relatively higher status afforded to women made this new religious movement much more appealing to women who would often times convert their husbands thus helping the religion and its values spread. Now! Very important! Did early Christian theologians “reason” that such values would play a significant role in the growth of Christianity and its success? Did they plan this? I doubt it. Again, these things “are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design”.

Remaining an inevitably smaller ethnocentric ideology led to the history of ill treatment and suspicion Jews have experienced at the hands of the larger Christianity and Islam. For example, the Quran mentions:

“Thou wilt surely find the most hostile of men to the believers are the Jews and the idolaters;”

In Christianity’s New Testament, Jesus tells Jews that don’t believe him that:

“You belong to your father, the devil.“ (John 8:44)

Thus it is understandable how many Jews can label Christians and Muslims as antisemitic leading to polarizations.

Since Judaism’s main religious texts like the Old Testament were written before the emergence of Christianity and Islam, they contain no derogatory remarks about them. However, consider the following. On Oct 16th, 2010 Rabbi Ovadia Yosef, founder and spiritual leader of the largest religious political party in Israel(Shas) which won 11 of 120 Knesset seats in the 2009 elections, and is also a former Sephardi Chief Rabbi of Israel which can be seen as the sort of Pope of the Sephardic Jews, said in a sermon that:

“Goyim[non-Jews] were born only to serve us. Without that, they have no place in the world — only to serve the People of Israel,”…“Why are gentiles needed? They will work, they will plow, they will reap. We will sit like an effendi and eat. That is why gentiles were created,”

His funeral was attended by over 800,000 adoring slightly smarter apes who brainwashed themselves with a “Jewish identity” in Jerusalem. If this smarter ape can have such views a decade into the 21st century just imagine what other Rabbis in the even more mystical past would say about non-Jews and the understandable bad blood between them and surrounding Muslims-Christians. Unfortunate, but what can we do, we are slightly smarter apes after all. The best we can hope for is to become “civilized” slightly smarter apes, which we do by understanding what leads to civilization, private property, intellectual freedom and the selection of superior information-TRUTH and order that emerges from it.

Let us now move a bit closer to the present and discuss the Jew-Gentile misunderstandings that led to the emergence of “Nazi identity”, resulting World War Two, as well as the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and much that emerges from it.

In a Christian world that would excommunicate usurers-moneylenders, Jews being immune to excommunication and now without Christian competition found an advantage as moneylenders-bankers which inadvertently caused them to be overly represented in modern finance-banking-capitalism . Historian Paul Johnson writes:

“The Jews reacted by engaging in the one business where Christian laws actually discriminated in their favour, and so became identified with the hated trade of moneylending. Rabbi Joseph Colon, who knew both France and Italy in the second half of the fifteenth century, wrote that the Jews of both countries hardly engaged in any other profession.”

Johnson mentions other ways in which Jews helped push the world in a more capitalist direction. One was financial innovation via their influence in the development of stock markets. Another was their stress on the importance of advertising. Better advertising speeds up competition and its spread of superior ideas-products so it is a great boost to civilization-order. The September 27th 1712 issue of England’s Spectator described the Jew’s vital influence as follows:

“They are so disseminated through all the trading Parts of the World, that they are become the instruments by which the most distant Nations converse with one another and by which mankind are knit together in a general correspondence. They are like the pegs and nails in a great building, which though they are but little valued in themselves, are absolutely necessary to keep the whole frame together.”

It was bad enough that they rejected the divinity of Christianity and Islam and practiced usury; but Jews were also fierce competitors who would upset Christian businessmen by disrupting their anti-competitive customs, all for the great benefit of the consumer and European social order and culture of course. Unfortunately, economic ignorance would lead many to understandably hate Jews and their understandable yet, very important!, inadvertent over-representation in business-Capitalism.

Jews were also inadvertently overtly represented in the atheistic virulently anti-religious Communist-Socialist movements of the late 19th and 20th century. How prevalent were Jews in spreading-implementing Socialist-Communist ideology? First of all there was Karl Marx, Socialism-Communism’s main intellectual who gave the movement enough of a naïve intellectual aura to mislead hundreds of future would-be dictators-intellectuals. Leon Trotsky(born Lev Davidovich Bronstein), founder of the Red Army, second only to Lenin and most likely to succeed him as leader of the Russian communists was also an ethnic Jew. Slezkine writes:

“At the First All-Russian Congress of Soviets in June 1917, at least 31 percent of Bolshevik delegates(and 37 percent of Unified Social Democrats) were Jews. At the Bolshevik Central Committee meeting of October 23, 1917, which voted to launch an armed insurrection, 5 out of the 12 members present were Jews. Three out of seven Politbureau members charged with leading the October uprising were Jews(Trotsky, Zinoviev, and Grigory Sokolnikov).”

According to Lenin, it was thanks to Jews that his Bolsheviks were able to “take over the state apparatus” in Russia. Lenin mentions:

“The fact that there were many Jewish intelligentsia members in the Russian cities was of great importance to the revolution. They put an end to the general sabotage that we were confronted with after the October Revolution… The Jewish elements were mobilized… and thus saved the revolution at a difficult time. It was only thanks to this pool of a rational and literate labor force that we succeeded in taking over the state apparatus.”

For a people who were sometimes seen as foreigners, Socialism’s international brotherhood (“Workers of the world, unite!” was to be a popular rallying cry) would seem to have an additional appeal and be a perfect fit for a people who were already a sort of international family. Socialism’s atheism would also do away with a major source of Jewish troubles now that everyone was supposed to be atheist-irreligious in the new scientific and rational Socialist world. The central and viral economic fallacy of Socialism, that having smart people-”experts” plan the social order would be better than letting selfish and greedy businessmen do so, needed the smarter and better educated to be the planners, and this is exactly what Jews were compared to the rest (at least in Russia), thus naturally and inadvertently rising to the top of the movement. As Chaim Weizmann recalls in his autobiography: “the non-Jewish population had not the same overwhelming thirst for knowledge as the Jews, who were always knocking at the doors of the schools.”

This large participation-association of ethnic Jews with Socialism would have disastrous consequences for the majority of Jews who did not want to be a part of Socialism or much less abandon their faith and traditions. As Lenin and Trotsky were launching post-World War One Russia into a civil war(1918–22) between the Communist Red Army and the White Russian Army which supported the Russian Monarchy and old order-institutions, Jews would pay a heavy price. Johnson writes that:

“The consequences for the Jews both immediate and long-term, both locally and world-wide, were appalling. The White Russian armies, seeking to destroy the Soviet regime, treated all Jews as enemies. In the Ukraine, the Civil War developed into the most extensive pogrom in Jewish history… In other parts of eastern Europe, a similar identification of Jews with Bolshevism led directly to murderous attacks on harmless Jewish communities. They were particularly bloody in Poland after the failure of the Bolshevik invasion and in Hungary after the fall of the Bela Kun regime. They occurred intermittently in Rumania throughout the 1920s. In all three countries the local Communist Parties had been largely created and run by Non-Jewish Jews, and in each case it was the unpolitical, traditional, observant Jews of the ghettos and villages who paid the penalty.”

Again, it needs to be stressed, as Johnson just mentioned: “In all three countries the local Communist Parties had been largely created and run by Non-Jewish Jews”. Thus it is quite understandable how so many like Hitler, Churchill and many Europeans came to associate-equate Jews with it.

We are now in a position to fully appreciate the wisdom of the founder of the misguided ideology of political Zionism and the eventual creation of Israel, Theodor Herzl when he writes:

“We are what the Ghetto made us. We have attained pre-eminence in finance, because mediaeval conditions drove us to it. The same process is now being repeated. We are again being forced into finance, now it is the stock exchange, by being kept out of other branches of economic activity. Being on the stock exchange, we are consequently exposed afresh to contempt. At the same time we continue to produce an abundance of mediocre intellects who find no outlet, and this endangers our social position as much as does our increasing wealth. Educated Jews without means are now rapidly becoming Socialists. Hence we are certain to suffer very severely in the struggle between classes, because we stand in the most exposed position in the camps of both Socialists and capitalists.”

We must emphasize that Socialist-Communist ideology, rooted on easy to absorb economic fallacies, was already spreading throughout the world and can be seen as an almost inevitable mistake as mankind tried to make sense of the workings of the social order-economy which was quickly growing in bewildering complexity. Jews were inadvertently in a position to be more attracted to Socialism and Capitalism and be leaders in both. They obviously did not “invent” or “plot” Socialism-Communism-Capitalism like Hitler and many others to this day claim. It could be said that they were ‘naturally selected’ to be Socialist-Capitalist-finance leaders, thus giving the impression to naïve thinkers that they were its “creators-plotters”.

Also by being more likely to be atheists and thus freer from traditional religion-influenced morals which goes hand-in-hand with a Darwinian-evolutionary outlook which is more tolerant and permissive of human nature, Jews once again found themselves leaders in the carnal pleasures associated with Hollywood, pornography, LGBT stuff, and the music industry which helps explain why Tel Aviv may be the gay capital of the world. As Marlon Brando put it: “Hollywood is run by Jews. It’s owned by Jews”…Totally understandable and NOT part of some self-serving malicious plotters. Jewish involvement and influence in such movements-industries is yet again “indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design.”

Nazi (National Socialist) Identity culminating in men like Hitler understandably emerged in Germany as a reaction to current events. For example, On November 7, 1918, just three days before the end of World War One, Kurt Eisner (a Jew) led a peaceful revolution which led to the brief existence of a socialist state in Bavaria (Munich being the capital). Eisner distanced himself from the Russian Communists and wanted his government to somehow respect private property, but unfortunately after his assassination and a few changes in government, by April 12, 1919 a more hard-core Communist Party headed by Eugen Leviné (another Jew) with direct ties to Lenin took over power and immediately began expropriating property, factories, etc. At the suggestion of Lenin, on April 30th Leviné had eight men who were prominent members of society (evil capitalists for sure) shot to help show he meant business. Levine’s short-lived communist government was ended by the Freikorps which were militias mostly made up of army volunteers who for a myriad of reasons were opposed to a Communist takeover of their country, especially one that was orchestrated from Russia and had such a high overrepresentation of Jews in their leadership. Earlier in Berlin too, Marxist Jews Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht had led another short-lived Communist government. So again, it is understandable how the emerging ‘Nazi Identity’ would be both anti-Communist with strong anti-Semitic tendencies as well.

Overall “Nazi Identity” was made up of various fallacies-myths. 1) Socialism (coercive competition immune central planning by “experts” instead of free and competing private businesses), 2) Racial theories which mistakenly attributed the relative lead in technology Europeans had to insignificant differences among homo sapiens. It is the software and economic system that leads to prosperity, not the hardware-biology which matters for creating civilization. 3) antisemitism which as just discussed grew from mistaking Jewish overrepresentation in Communism and Capitalism as some sort of sinister conspiracy or something erroneously tied to the biology of Jews.

Once Hitler rose to power in August 2nd, 1934 “Nazi Identity” understandably expanded leading to an increasing polarization between the anti-Semitic ‘Nazi Identity’ and ‘Jewish Identity’ and its sympathetic supporters. Let us briefly look at the polarizing language between Hitler-Nazis and Jews. For example here we see Hitler displaying his racial pseudoscience mixed with the antisemitism:

“For us, it is a problem of whether our nation can ever recover its health, whether the Jewish spirit can ever really be eradicated. Don’t be misled into thinking you can fight a disease without killing the carrier, without destroying the bacillus. Don’t think you can fight racial tuberculosis without taking care to rid the nation of the carrier of that racial tuberculosis. This Jewish contamination will not subside, this poisoning of the nation will not end, until the carrier himself, the Jew, has been banished from our midst.” (Hitler, 1920)

Hitler again showing his abysmal economic ignorance vilifying stock markets and seeing them as something tied to ‘characteristics of the Jewish people’:

“thus bit by bit the Stock Exchange came to control the whole national economy. The directors of these institutions were, and are without exception, Jews. I say ‘without exception,’ for the few non-Jews who had a share in them are in the last resort nothing but screens, shop-window Christians, whom one needs in order, for the sake of the masses, to keep up the appearance that these institutions were after all founded as a natural outcome of the needs and the economic life of all peoples alike, and were not, as was the fact, institutions which correspond only with the essential characteristics of the Jewish people and are the outcome of those characteristics.” (Hitler, 1922)

Let us now look at the understandable reaction by the fellow homo sapiens who have absorbed a ‘Jewish Identity’. Soon after Hitler was appointed Chancellor in January 30th, 1933, but before he had dictatorial powers or any laws discriminating against Jews were passed, on March 27th American Jews headed by Rabbi Stephen S. Wise and thousands of other Jewish leaders, held mass rallies across the U.S. in over 70 locations like Chicago, Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Baltimore, with New York’s Madison Square Garden overflowing with over 50,000 supporters and its rally being broadcast worldwide ultimately having a whopping one million participants. They promoted a boycott of German goods and would try to use their influence on world governments to help bring down Hitler’s government. Cyrus Adler, president of the American Jewish Committee was one of the many voices against such a direct confrontation with the German government. His committee’s Jewish contacts in Germany were strongly opposed to such rallies. New York Supreme Court Justice Joseph M. Proskauer wisely expressed his concerns against “causing more trouble for the Jews in Germany by unintelligent action”. The British newspaper The Daily Express had a headline story about the event titled “Judea Declares War on Germany”. It mentioned that:

”The Israeli people around the world declare economic and financial war against Germany. Fourteen million Jews stand together as one man, to declare war against Germany. The Jewish wholesaler will forsake his firm, the banker his stock exchange, the merchant his commerce and the pauper his pitiful shed in order to join together in a holy war against Hitler’s people.”

In retaliation, 5 days after on April 1st, Germany’s Minister of Propaganda Joseph Goebbels organized a one-day boycott of Jewish businesses which would be lifted if anti-Nazi protests were suspended which obviously did not happen. This would be the beginning of a political and propaganda war between organized Jewry (predominantly American Jews) and Hitler’s government which would see German Jews lose more and more freedoms, and very important, would help Jews be increasingly seen as a dangerous 5th column to be interned during the war similar to how Japanese-Americans were as the US fought Japan. A few days later on April 7th Germany would pass the ‘Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service’ which would prevent Jews, as well as political opponents, from having many types of government jobs.

Here are a few more statements from leading Jews at the time, long, long before the war broke out on Sept 1st, 1939 or Jews were sent to ghettos or concentration camps. In a radio broadcast which was also printed in the August 7th 1933 edition of the New York Times, prominent Jewish lawyer and civic leader Samuel Untermeyer mentioned the following:

”Each of you, Jew and Gentile alike, who has not already enlisted in this sacred war should do so now and here. It is not sufficient that you should buy no goods made in Germany. You must refuse to deal with any merchant or shopkeeper who sells any German-made goods or who patronises German ships or shipping…. we will undermine the Hitler regime and bring the German people to their senses by destroying their export trade on which their very existence depends.”

On January, 1934 (over 5 years before start of war) Vladimir Jabotinsky, one of the most important and influential Zionist ideologues mentioned:

”For months now the struggle against Germany is waged by each Jewish community, at each conference, in all our syndicates, and by each Jew all over the world. There is reason to believe that our part in this struggle has general value. We will trigger a spiritual and material war of all the world against Germany’s ambitions to become once again a great nation, to recover lost territories and colonies. But our Jewish interests demand the complete destruction of Germany. Collectively and individually, the German nation is a threat to us Jews.”

These sorts of statements frequently blasted on leading newspapers in the USA and England for about 6 years, and their influence on sympathetic politicians, especially the already fiercely anti-German Roosevelt administration (Roosevelt had been Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Navy during WWI) would eventually lead to war.

It is widely understood that the Treaty of Versailles forced upon the losing Germans after World War One had countless injustices, one of them being separating the German city of Danzig from the mainland by making it an enclave within, and largely controlled by, Poland. Most historians today and wise politicians during the lead-up to World War Two felt like Hitler’s demands that Danzig should be reunited with Germany were very reasonable and legitimate goals. For example, former US President Herbert Hoover criticized the Roosevelt Administration’s virulent anti-Hitler stance when he wrote:

“Another action by Mr. Roosevelt was his influence upon the Poles not to negotiate the question of Danzig. The adamant attitude of the Poles against negotiations received support from the Washington Administration. The separation of the German city of Danzig from Germany…had long been a cause of agitation by the Germans. Both were a part of vengeance and there was merit in the German claims. I had stated at one time that they should be corrected.”

In addition to Nazi antisemitism already discussed, the 1935 racist and anti-Semitic Nuremberg Laws, and the government sanctioned cruelty of events like Kristallnacht (November 9–10, 1938) where thousands of Jewish properties were vandalized, understandably led Jews and their sympathetic supporters in the US and British governments to prevent the peaceful reunification of Danzig and understandable polarization and expansion of the war as Hitler reunited Danzig by force by invading Poland with Stalin.

Sadly the tribalistic good vs. evil mindset that the Jews were understandably creating in the USA as an understandable reaction to Nazi antisemitism was no match for the reason of more nuanced thinkers like the great American hero, and first man to fly non-stop across the Atlantic Ocean, Charles Lindbergh who mentioned in a famous speech at Des Moines on September 11, 1941:

“It is not difficult to understand why Jewish people desire the overthrow of Nazi Germany. The persecution they suffered in Germany would be sufficient to make bitter enemies of any race. No person with a sense of the dignity of mankind can condone the persecution of the Jewish race in Germany. But no person of honesty and vision can look on their pro-war policy here today without seeing the dangers involved in such a policy both for us and for them. Instead of agitating for war, the Jewish groups in this country should be opposing it in every possible way for they will be among the first to feel its consequences. Tolerance is a virtue that depends upon peace and strength. History shows that it cannot survive war and devastations. A few far-sighted Jewish people realize this and stand opposed to intervention. But the majority still do not.”

The vital point is to realize how Jew-Gentile misunderstandings were the main drivers of the war. After the US joined the war in Dec. 7, 1941, Jewish leader Chaim Weizmann mentioned the obvious: “this war is our war”. In a speech on December 3, 1942, in New York he mentions:

”We are not denying and are not afraid to confess that this war is our war and that it is waged for the liberation of Jewry… Stronger than all fronts together is our front, that of Jewry. We are not only giving this war our financial support on which the entire war production is based, we are not only providing our full propaganda power which is the moral energy that keeps this war going. The guarantee of victory is predominantly based on weakening the enemy forces, on destroying them in their own country, within the resistance. And we are the Trojan horses in the enemy’s fortress. Thousands of Jews living in Europe constitute the principal factor in the destruction of our enemy. There, our front is a fact and the most valuable aid for victory.”

Let us next say a few things about the evolution of ‘Zionist Identity’ and resulting Israeli-Palestinian conflict and all the grows from it. Both antisemitism and Zionism are rooted in the same intellectual error, that the fellow homo sapiens who “identify as Jews” are so different from the other homo sapiens that they must leave the real thousands of towns and Synagogues where for hundreds of years they were an integral part of Western Civilization to create a country based on religious mythology in an area already populated by others who had a different “identity” (Muslims, Christians, and fellow anti-Zionist Jews) and for numerous understandable reasons were adamantly opposed to the creation of a “Jewish State” in their surroundings. The founder of political Zionism, Theodore Herzl himself highlighted this ideological congruence of both Zionists and anti-Semites in his foundational book “The Jewish State”(1896):

“The anti-semites will be our most steadfast friends.” “The anti-Semitic countries will be our allies” “Great exertions will hardly be necessary to spur on the movement. Anti-Semites provide the requisite impetus. They need only do what they did before, and then they will create a desire to emigrate where it did not previously exist, and strengthen it where it existed before.”

During the early days of political Zionism most Jews rightly thought it was a bad idea. The rabbinical establishment in Munich, Germany, where Herzl wanted to hold the First Zionist Congress, strongly rejected the idea so the meeting was moved to Basle Switzerland(8/29–31/1897). They told him :

“Regarding nationality, we feel totally at one with our fellow Germans and therefore strive towards the realization of the spiritual and moral goals of our dear fatherland with an enthusiasm equaling theirs.”

Jews were divided into the Zionists and anti-Zionists (“assimilationists”). Chaim Weizmann, the leading Zionist figure after Herzl’s death in 1904, lamented how “assimilated Jews” were “dead against Zionism” and correctly identified Zionism as “a primitive tribalism”. He writes:

“For assimilated Jews…They looked upon it…as a primitive tribalism. They felt themselves…called upon to “rescue” Judaism from Zionism…these people are dead against Zionism…Zionism is not meant for those people who have cut themselves adrift from Jewry…”

Of course! That rapidly increasing number of very well educated cosmopolitan and increasingly secular “assimilated Jews” spread all over Europe-USA just wanted to be fellow human beings or equal world citizens free of ancient tribalisms-mysticisms-identities. Unfortunately, for very understandable reasons-factors for which nobody is to blame and are ultimately rooted in economic ignorance, like a rocket that is just about to reach orbit but runs out of fuel and comes crashing down to earth, Zionism would inadvertently pull ‘Jewish Identity’ and all of Western Civilization back to an increasingly ethnocentric identity-worldview with disastrous consequences.

Many Christians with the best of intentions, as well as their own antisemitism also played a significant role. It easily made sense for many that Jews should live in their ancient-mythical lands, for example American president during World War One Woodrow Wilson too liked the idea: “To think, that I the son of a manse should be able to help restore the Holy Land to its people.” Wanting to win the support of Jews everywhere for their First World War against Germany, on November 2nd 1917, via the ‘Balfour Declaration’, the British government officially made it a policy to help create a “National Home” for Jews in Palestine. Former Prime Minister James Balfour mentioned in a cabinet meeting that:

“The vast majority of Jews in Russia and America… now appear to be favorable to Zionism. If we could make a declaration favorable to such an ideal, we should be able to carry on extremely useful propaganda in both Russia and America.”

British Prime Minister Lloyd George added that:

“the Zionist leaders gave us a definite promise that, if the Allies committed themselves to giving facilities for the establishment of a National Home for the Jews in Palestine, they would do their best to rally to the Allied cause.”

What about the 700,000 or so Arabs who already inhabited Palestine? The imperialist attitude of the British-Europeans is perfectly captured by former Prime Minister Lord Balfour who said at the time:

“I am quite unable to see why Heaven or any other Power should object to our telling the Moslem what he ought to think.”

And:

“For in Palestine we do not propose to even go through the form of consulting the wishes of the present inhabitants of the country though the American [King-Crane] Commission is going through the form of asking what they are. The Four Great Powers [Britain, France, Italy and the United States] are committed to Zionism. And Zionism, be it right or wrong, good or bad, is rooted in age-long traditions, in present needs, and future hopes, of far profounder import than the desires and prejudices of the 700,000 Arabs who now inhabit that ancient land.”

If the Palestinians-natives had some form of truly representative government the Zionist error could have been prevented but to a significant degree this was not to be thanks to Zionism’s perhaps most influential ally, Winston Churchill. During the years 1920–1922 Churchill was the Colonial Secretary allowing him to call the shots in the British controlled Middle East. On May 12th, 1921 Palestinian representatives sent the Colonial Office resolutions asking for representative government and the annulling of the Balfour Declaration but on May 31st Churchill told the British Cabinet that:

“he had decided to suspend the development of representative institutions in Palestine ‘owing to the fact that any elected body would undoubtedly prohibit further immigration of Jews’.”

Zionist leader and future Israeli Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion had no problems understanding the Arab point of view:

“There is a fundamental conflict. We and they want the same thing: We both want Palestine. And that is the fundamental conflict”… “Were I an Arab…I would rise up against immigration liable sometime in the future to hand the country and all of its Arab inhabitants over to Jewish rule. What Arab cannot do his math and understand that immigration at the rate of 60,000 a year means a Jewish state in all of Palestine?”

After nearly three decades of increasing chaos in the area, the United Nations created the UNSCOP(UN Special Committee on Palestine) and came up with a recommendation, the “U.N. partition plan of 1947” (aka Resolution 181, Nov. 29, 1947) which gave 55% of the land to 37% of the people(Jews) for a future Jewish state and 44% of the land for the majority and native Arab population for their future state, with the city of Jerusalem administered by the UN. Needless to say the Arabs felt like some white guys in Europe deciding how to restructure the area, especially in such a manner, was not acceptable. The Zionists, especially given all the chaos arising from Nazi Germany and the recent World War Two, were understandably fed-up with the usual antisemitism and sporadic clashes with local Arabs, and as the British withdrew their forces they went on the offensive encouraging the depopulation of Arab villages and towns. On the 6th of February 1948, during a Mapai Party Council, someone mentioned that “we have no land there” while referring to some lands west of Jerusalem, to which Ben Gurion replied:

“The war will give us the land. The concepts of “ours” and “not ours” are only concepts for peacetime, and during war they lose their meaning.”

Ben-Gurion also mentioned in his diary:

“The compulsory transfer of the Arabs… could give us something which we never had…This is national consolidation in an independent homeland.”

And also declared at a congressional meeting:

“Transfer is what will make possible a comprehensive settlement program. Thankfully, the Arab people have vast empty areas. Jewish power, which grows steadily, will also increase our possibilities to carry out transfer on a large scale.”

Yosef Weitz who was the director of the Land and Afforestation Department of the Jewish National Fund and was an avid supporter of forced transfer and describes the events:

“Our army is steadily conquering Arab villages and their inhabitants are afraid and fleeing like mice. You have no idea what happened in the Arab villages. It is enough that during the night several shells whistle overhead and they flee for their lives. Villages are steadily emptying, and if we continue on this course–and we shall certainly do so as our strength increases–then tens of villages will empty their inhabitants. This time these self-confident ones, too, will feel what it is like to be refugees. Maybe they will understand us.”

By the time things settled in 1949, over 400 Palestinian villages and towns were destroyed or depopulated. About 700,000 Palestinians were displaced from their homes AND NOT ALLOWED TO RETURN once the fighting ended.

When David Ben Gurion declared victory and the establishment of Israel in 1949, then US president Harry S. Truman was advised by the State Department and others against recognizing it, but in his own words:

“I’m sorry, gentlemen, but I have to answer to hundreds of thousands who are anxious for the success of Zionism; I do not have hundreds of thousands of Arabs among my constituents.”

The Zionist Jews increasingly tied their “identity” to a massive error and eventually reach the stage where we are today, where saying that Zionism and the resulting Israeli state as it currently functions has been a massive error, essentially what most Jews in the late 1800s were wisely saying, is seen by many Jews today as antisemitic ‘hate speech’. CEO of the Anti-Defamation League Jonathan Greenblatt has mentioned that “Anti-Zionism is antisemitism”. The “Zionist identity” can very easily justify its worldview and actions by pointing the finger at the many conspiracy-minded naïve antisemites and traumatized Palestinians who say awful things about Jews. Thus like young ideologues who are persuaded by Marx’s “Communist Manifesto” and see businessmen as sinister capitalists to be killed, ‘Jewish Identity’ and understandably sympathetic supporters increasingly seek to make it a ‘hate crime’ and thus coerce and ultimately kill if necessary, those who make mistakes and say naive conspiratorial things about Jews, or feel like Zionism and the current Israeli state is illegitimate, or are very critical of it. As Israeli author of the excellent book ‘The Invention of the Jewish People’, Shlomo Sand, mentions: “Zionism has become…. a sort of Stalinism.” Once again! Very importantly! There is no one to blame here, we just have ‘identities’ and various ‘echo chambers’ evolving and reacting to each other in various ways. All sides lacking the evolutionary framework needed to understand the root causes of the fallacies leading to the hatreds.

Naïve American politicians, especially religious ones in the Republican Party like Florida Governor Ron Desantis, go to Israel, immerse themselves in the history of Jewish suffering, are shown antisemitic statements by understandably traumatized and radicalized Muslims, and then see it as their moral duty to do essentially whatever Israeli leaders like PM Benjamin Netanyahu feels is necessary to fight ‘the terrorists’, antisemites, ‘the world’s oldest hatred’ and so on. While in a recent visit to Israel DeSantis signed ‘hate speech’ laws to make criminals out of people who make mistakes, and mentioned that, “We’re gonna go after these third world countries that have become hotbeds of antisemitism”, to further kill and impoverish more poor and understandably misguided fellow homo sapiens. Netanyahu himself has been somewhat perplexed at how easy he can get US politicians to pretty much do whatever he wants. He mentioned:

“I know what America is. America is something that can easily be moved. Moved to the right direction….80% of the Americans support us. It’s absurd. We have that kind of support.”

A year after the 9/11 attacks, on Sept. 12, 2002, while encouraging the US to attack Saddam over his ultimately inexistent ‘Weapons of Mass Destruction’, Netanyahu told the US Congress:

“The more victories you amass, the easier the next victory becomes. The first victory in Afghanistan makes a second victory in Iraq that much easier. The second victory in Iraq will make the third victory that much easier.”

Regardless of how smart the MIT graduated Netanyahu is, the seemingly obvious fact that even the most radicalized “anti-Semitic” terrorist is just a fellow homo sapiens who has absorbed a very understandable set of erroneous ideas is obviously neglected. It is so simple. We just need to kill the heretics, we just need to let the “experts” plan the economy instead of the greedy capitalists, we just need to keep killing ‘the terrorist regimes’. 21 years after Bibi and ‘Zionist Identity’ persuaded the US government to further destroy itself via yearly 1.2+ trillion in military consumption and the destruction of already poor countries like Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, and Syria, the Zionists and American masses remain as ignorant of the root Jew-Gentile fallacies from which all the chaos emerges as dreamy eyed socialists were as they inadvertently kept destroying their own economies.

Thus we can see that just like Martin Luther inadvertently transformed Christian identity, so would Theodore Herzl inadvertently do likewise for Judaism and Christianity by sort of Zionizing them both, which has also had immense ramifications for the Islamic world. As with Christianity, the Islamic world had been moving in a more secular and tolerant direction but the moral outrage over Zionism reversed that leading to the Islamic Revolution in Iran, 9/11, etc. Again, ‘Jewish Identity’ can easily point the finger at poorly educated conspiracy-minded Islamic clerics and politicians to get the “good” people to choose the ‘right side’.

Just like Nazi antisemitism and its root causes and effects where the main drivers of World War Two, it is obvious to see how Zionism and its effects have been the main driver of the recent and on-going chaos and polarizations in the Middle East and also the current Russia-Ukraine war. Although Putin and his government are nowhere near as ‘antisemitic’ as Hitler’s was, Putin’s government gets along very well with strong critics of Israel and Zionism like Syria and Iran. Keeping with long established United Nations traditions going back to 1949 Russia recognizes territory in northern Israel referred to as the ‘Golan Heights’ as belonging to Syria, not Israel. The most important Palestinian leader, President of the Palestinian National Authority, Mahmoud Abbas, considers Russia to be a fairer and more impartial collaborator for peace than the USA. He told Putin:

“We don’t trust America…We don’t trust it, we don’t rely on it, and under no circumstances can we accept that America is the sole party in resolving a problem,”…”Russia stands by justice and international law and that is enough for us,”….”we are happy and satisfied with the Russian position.”

Besides a nearly incapacitated and clearly senile US President Biden, arguably the most powerful US politician, especially as it relates to war and foreign policy, is the US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken who is Jewish and understandably sees Iran and Syria as some of the most sinister-evil countries in the world given their critical attitude towards Israel-Zionism and clearly anti-Semitic statements of many of their leaders. For example, on July 27, 2022, Iran’s Supreme Ruler Ali Khamenei tweeted the following:

“The Western powers are a mafia. The reality of this power is a mafia. At the top of this mafia stand the prominent Zionist merchants, and the politicians obey them. The US is their showcase, and they’re spread out everywhere.”

Again, mistaking the immense influence of pro-Zionism Jews which is the result of complex evolutionary factors, for some inexistent sinister conspiracy. Further complicating matters is the fact that Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelenskyy is Jewish. Zelenskyy told Israeli politicians in a Zoom meeting “You can mediate between countries, but not between good and evil.” Again, the inevitable emergence of the simplistic-tribalistic ‘good and evil’ mythical thinking you need for large groups of homo sapiens to slaughter each other. Zelensky is also trying to portray the good relations between Russia and Iran leading to Russians helping Iran acquire nuclear weapons. He mentioned: “Is Iran just interested in money? Probably not money at all, but Russian assistance to the Iranian nuclear program Probably, this is exactly the meaning of their alliance.”


The above factors and image with three consecutive tweets from Khamenei understandably cause many Jews and their sympathetic supporters in the USA and Europe to create an intellectual aura that paints Russia-Putin, as, you guessed it, the next irrational maniacal Hitler, and radiate a naïve “good vs. evil” mentality that can only lead to World War as happened in World War Two.

In addition to Blinken, the Jew-Gentile polarizations going on for decades have percolated to the upper echelons of the US government defense and foreign policy bureaucracies mostly Zionist Jews and sympathetic Evangelical Christians known as the ‘Neocons’. For example, Evangelical Christian “Neocon”, Former US Secretary of State as well as Director of the CIA, Mike Pompeo, mentions:

“This land, as an evangelical Christian, I am convinced from my reading of the Bible that 3,000 years onto now, in spite of the denial of so many, is the rightful homeland of the Jewish people,”

Pompeo, leading the charge of the forces of tribalistic ‘good vs. evil’, understandably sees the Iranian government as pure evil and anyone who sees things differently as engaging in ‘sheer madness’. He writes:

“The Iranian regime is a de facto terrorist group….the Obama administration’s overeducated liberals…. decided that they knew better and sought to cut a deal with Iran. They believed that they could transform due-hard Islamists into responsible partners in peace…It was sheer madness.”

Some of these ‘overeducated liberals’ are just non-religious non-naïve ‘good vs. evil’ thinkers who believe all homo sapiens can eventually overcome misunderstandings and have peace, but of course, this is ‘sheer madness’. Pompeo understandably radiates the ‘good vs. evil’, with-us or against-us, tribalistic mentality in all directions with his hatred of famed journalists and whistleblowers Edward Snowden and Julian Assange whom he referred to as ‘simple hoodlums’ and writes:

”villains such as Assange…Edward Snowden, Chelsea Manning…They certainly aren’t journalists. If they are foreigners, they are enemies. If they are Americans, they are traitors…. These crooks claim to be honoring human rights and free expression. They are in fact serving the interests of the most evil and repressive regimes… These enemies and traitors must be punished… I pursued Assange’s extradition hard as CIA director and secretary of state…. I lobbied the Ecuadorians to kick Assange out of his pathetic accommodations inside their embassy, and they finally capitulated…I will be delighted the day he is thrown into an American federal penitentiary. Just one less useful idiot free for Russia to exploit-and a warning to all such scoundrels in the future.”

In the naïve battle of ‘good vs. evil’, your side of homo sapiens can never do any wrong. Pompeo writes:

“I was right in that waterboarding worked. And the CIA men and women who were tasked with collecting intelligence….operate with the highest respect for the law.”

Compare the above naive ‘good vs. evil’, ‘us vs. them’ mindset of Pompeo, to the wise, courageous and profound Assange. When talking about naïve tribalistic politicians like Hillary, Trump, Pompeo and the US administration who want to kill him, he mentions the following:

”Yes, of course there’s groupism operating and probably opportunism as well. But, you know, I don’t think you can cast these people as devils at all. These are people with a range of noble and ignoble character traits. They’re human beings. And they have a worldview, and it really is a worldview. They exist within a particular information sphere, which I find fairly confining and self-referential, and believe some weird things. But I think that’s a product of the information that they receive, their upbringing, their — you know, the networks who are keeping them in a particular bubble. And I don’t think it’s because, with some exceptions, that they are intrinsically bad human beings.”

Assange is of course very well aware of the monumental error-disaster that Zionism has been. He mentions way back in 2016, commenting on how the Zionist error leads to Russia being seen as some evil due to good relations with Syria thus predicting the current Russia-Ukraine war. Assange mentions:

“Russian actions on its own doorstep in Eastern Europe do not in fact threaten the United States or any actual vital interest. Nor does Moscow threaten the U.S. through its intervention on behalf of the Syrian government in the Middle East. That Russia is described incessantly as a threat in those areas is largely a contrivance arranged by the media, the Democratic and Republican National Committees and by the White House…there is, however, another country that has interfered in U.S. elections, has endangered Americans living or working overseas and has corrupted America’s legislative and executive branches. It has exploited that corruption to initiate legislation favorable to itself, has promoted unnecessary and unwinnable wars and has stolen American technology and military secrets. Its ready access to the mainstream media to spread its own propaganda provides it with cover for its actions and it accomplishes all that and more through the agency of a powerful and well-funded domestic lobby that oddly is not subject to the accountability afforded by the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) of 1938 even though it manifestly works on behalf of a foreign government. That country is, of course, Israel”.

Thus, of course, Assange is an enemy and a traitor…

According to legendary journalist Seymour Hersh it was the USA and top American bureaucrats like Acting Deputy Secretary of State of the United States Victoria Nuland, National Security Advisor of the United States Jake Sullivan, and again Antony Blinken, all three Zionist Jews, who were largely responsible for the blowing up of the Nord Stream pipeline that sent Russian natural gas to Germany. For more details on how primarily Jewish ideologues are pushing the war against Russia and obviously most of America’s wars read “How Jewish Is the War Against Russia?” and “America’s Jews Are Driving America’s Wars” by the great Philip Giraldi.

Bottom line, the patterns are just repeating. Hitler miscalculated how his antisemitism would turn the US, England, and other major powers against him regardless of his very reasonable proposals for Danzig reunification, especially once he felt he had no choice but to reunite Danzig by force by invading Poland. Putin, just like Hitler, felt he needed to use force-invasion to bring independence or reunification to many ethnic Russians who were stuck living under a Ukrainian government they despised and stop NATO militaristic expansion. Putin miscalculated how his support for critics of Zionism-Israel like Syria, Iran, Abbas, etc. would likewise turn Jews and once again the USA and other major powers against his very reasonable desire to somehow bring independence or non-Ukrainian rule to ethnic Russians living in Eastern Ukraine and prevent NATO expansion. Both Hitler and Putin were-are fellow homo sapiens, both actually very experienced and in many ways astute and accomplished world leaders, yet both found themselves portrayed as some irrational evil monsters due to disastrous antisemitism as in the case of Hitler, or having friendly relations with countries and intellectuals that are very critical of Israel and Zionism to various degrees, and also make misguided antisemitic statements which makes it very easy for Jews and their supporters to then ignore, vilify, bomb them.

The above massive Zionist Jewish influence must NOT be seen as some conspiracy because it is not, it is the understandable result of complex evolved cultural factors which we hope to have briefly summarized. Jewish involvement and influence in such movements-industries is yet again “indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design.” If “The Jews” were smart enough to “plot” the numerous things the non-Jewish world erroneously accuses them of, they would have been smart enough to realize that Socialism-Communism was a disaster for Jew and non-Jew alike and have been telling everyone about fellow Jew Ludwig von Mises and have built him a 20+ feet solid gold statue and placed it in front of the Western Wall. The fact that they have yet to do this is further evidence that “The Jews” in general are as lost in ignorance and mythology as the rest.

As with Socialism, it is disastrous to refer to Zionists or Socialist as malicious people. It was Carl Menger’s intellectual descendants like Mises and Hayek who eventually helped show the intellectual fallacies in Socialism and played the biggest factor in its relative demise, Hayek even dedicated his classic book ‘The Road to Serfdom’, ‘to socialists of all parties’. Free market legend and 1976 Nobel Laureate in Economics Milton Friedman summarizes:

“There is no figure who had more of an influence, no person who had more of an influence on the intellectuals behind the iron curtain than Friedrich Hayek. His books were translated and published… by the underground, and black market editions read widely and undoubtedly influenced the climate of opinion that ultimately brought about the collapse of the soviet union.”

Similarly it is compassionate and astute education, marketing and engagement which can help reduce both, the antisemitic fallacies, as well as the Zionist ones which fuel each other. The political Socialist-minded ‘Hard Left’ erroneously loves to call Zionists some capitalists racist settler colonialists exploiters, and of course you have your naïve conspiracy-minded folks. Both are wrong and simply lack the more nuanced blame-free evolutionary understanding needed to really make sense of things. The more they erroneously criticize ‘Zionist Identity’ and are thus seen as antisemites the more the power and influence of ‘Zionist Identity’ expands as obviously happened with Hitler. Unfortunately yet understandably ‘Zionist Identity’ and its emerging organizations like the Anti-Defamation League and the growing number of Holocaust museums continue to make two disastrous errors. One, they continue to see antisemitism as some irrational quasi-religious-like ‘hate’ which can only be contained by intimidation and violence via ‘hate speech’ laws which does nothing to correct the fallacies and further expands them by making it more seemingly “obvious” to many naïve thinkers that ‘The Jews’ really are maliciously conspiring to silence criticism of their alleged nefarious plans. Again, this must be stressed, making criminals out of people who due to complex factors have erroneous ideas should be seen as cruel, antiquated, uncivilized and counterproductive. World Wars like WWII over Jew-Gentile misunderstandings are a bad idea. Antisemitism and the history of Jew-Gentile frictions must be understood as intellectual errors. And two, they see criticism of Zionism as antisemitism which just expands the online censorship, criminalization of speech and thought, and inevitable polarizations which must inevitably lead to the destruction of freedom of speech and its vital emergent peace and competition of ideas which is especially needed to properly understand and solve our Jew-Gentile problems.

Regardless of how one sees things, whether someone wants to “blame” the antisemites, or the Zionists and their continuously expanding police state via ‘hate speech’ laws and censorship and other disastrous ramifications, or hopefully not “blame” anyone, we desperately need more and more people to familiarize themselves with the above. But even more importantly, we just need to strike at the root of the economic ignorance from which all the fallacies and ultimately government create chaos emerge from. Mises one last time:

If we want to avoid the destruction of Western civilization and the relapse into primitive wretchedness, we must change the mentality of our fellow citizens. We must make them realize what they owe to the much vilified “economic freedom,” the system of free enterprise and capitalism. The intellectuals and those who call themselves educated must use their superior cognitive faculties and power of reasoning for the refutation of erroneous ideas about social, political and economic problems and for the dissemination of a correct grasp of the operation of the market economy. They must start by familiarizing themselves with all the issues involved in order to teach those who are blinded by ignorance and emotions. They must learn in order to acquire the ability to enlighten the misguided many. It is a fateful error on the part of our most valuable contemporaries to believe that economics can be left to specialists in the same way in which various fields of technology can be safely left to those who have chosen to make any one of them their vocation. The issues of society’s economic organization are every citizen’s business. To master them to the best of one’s ability is the duty of everyone.