Speech/presentation providing an introduction to economics with a focus on the evolutionary insights of Carl Menger, Mises and Hayek. 


Introduction.

In August 10, 1915, British physicist Henry Mosely, who would have probably won the Nobel Prize that year, died in perhaps the most disastrous error homo sapiens has thus far made, The First World War (1914–18). Slightly smarter apes that had absorbed German-French-British-Russian “identities”… students, fathers, engineers, “great minds” and “experts”, who even shared a common European Christian faith, reverted to their tribal ape-like nature, and for God, honor, flag and country, needlessly slaughtered each other across the trenches for four years leading to about 18 million deaths and millions more left invalid. Why did this happen? And if it was such a big deal at the time, worth sacrificing so much, how come hardly anybody knows anything about it today? 20 years later, via World War 2, the tribalistic slaughter led to over 80 million deaths and what followed was a “Cold War” that brought homo sapiens close to nuclear annihilation several times. Why were our “great leaders” and “intellectuals” utterly powerless to prevent the World War One and Two slaughters and were in fact its promoters? How can mankind today build mindbogglingly complex microchips, airplanes, satellites, the Internet and so much more, yet still not have figured out something as simple as peace, and always be one spark away from another world-wide tribalistic tyrannical calamity as CovidMania and the war in Ukraine are clearly showing?

There is something missing from our understanding of how the world works, something as monumental in importance as Darwin’s theory of evolution, something that our “leading intellectuals” and “experts” have yet to discover and spread accordingly. Fortunately for mankind that “something” has already been discovered and explained by a group of little-known and widely misunderstood evolutionary intellectuals often-times referred to as ‘The Austrian School of Economics’. And as 1974 Nobel Laureate in Economics, F.A. Hayek(1899–1992) writes, their vital insights and “fundamental ideas belong fully and wholly to Carl Menger[1840–1921]”.

That "something" is the following:

Homo sapiens is a slightly smarter ape whose instincts are ideally suited to living in small tribes of less than 100 people but finds himself relatively lost in the modern socioeconomic order where things like money, profit-loss calculation, economic competition, finance, banking, and interest rates coordinate the actions of billions of human beings all over the world to create what the great British 19th century thinker Herbert Spencer referred to as "The Social Organism". Tribal warfare, political infighting, coercing each other, rape, and 'The law of the jungle', are things we have been doing for millions of years and are somewhat intuitive, respecting private property and the freedom of others to not go along with our desires, commercial society and understanding the aforementioned economic concepts which have been around for less than a few thousand, is not. Hayek summarizes:

"...man’s instincts...were not made for the kinds of surroundings, and for the numbers, in which he now lives. They were adapted to life in the small roving bands or troops in which the human race and its immediate ancestors evolved during the few million years while the biological constitution of homo sapiens was being formed."

Notice how all man-made calamities, from religious slaughters, to world wars, to political chaos, are always the result of homo sapeins coercing each other via government. We have simply not evolved to understand the economic forces that create civilization, the vital need for freedom and privatization, and the immense harm that too much government can do. Supposedly the Dodo bird quickly went extinct because it had not evolved to recognize humans as potential dangers, Homo sapiens similarly just lines up for 'central planning' and government coordinated self-mutilation over and over and over and over.

Just like the human body-organism and the numerous “systems” that coordinate it like the respiratory-nervous-digestive “systems”, are the result of the actions of some 70 trillion human and bacterial cells but obviously NOT the result of any conscious planning or designing by them, and thanks to the likes of Darwin and a modern understanding of genetics we can understand how ‘natural selection’ was the inadvertent “designer” of such systems and complex order, the modern global socioeconomic order or "Social Organism”, is also coordinated by a “system” referred to as “The Market Process”. ‘The Market Process’ and the “parts” it is composed of like money, prices, economic competition, interest rates, and the legal-religious-governmental frameworks that sustain it, “are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design” similar to how cells inadvertently-unconsciously act to create the systems that coordinate multicellular life. The ‘market process’ shares this trait with language which is also a complex mechanism that is the result of human action but was not consciously designed or invented by people-cells.

It took millions of years for natural selection to evolve the numerous complex biochemical ‘systems’ that allow single cells to cooperate in multicellular organisms. Sometimes these mechanisms fail and the cells revert to their solitary ways and replicate wildly, in other words, they become cancerous or uncooperative and prematurely destroy the larger multicellular organism-order they were a part of. Similarly, it took about 50,000 years for natural selection to evolve ‘the market process’ which reordered tribal homo sapiens into cooperative members of the ‘Social Organism’. Unfortunately, generally speaking man is as ignorant of the workings of the social order and its evolution, as cells are regarding their role in multicellular organisms, and our ‘law of the jungle’ tribal instincts constantly has us, via massive monopoly-coercive bureaucracies-governments destroying the very freedom and tolerance that is needed to create-coordinate civilization.

To better undersdand the above we next discuss a few simple economic concepts.


About 4 billion years ago matter began to be increasingly incoporated into these increasingly complex orderly things we call living things. Living things and thus society are self-perpetuating orders that are in continuous cycles of wealth production and consumption. Wealth is anything that a living thing values or uses to sustain or expand its order. Production involves the transformation or relocation of matter to create wealth, and consumption transforms or relocates wealth in a way that sustains or expands living things. These complex cycles of production and consumption require precise information. If one understands how information arises and guides the relocations or movements of matter involved in these cycles that lead to the biological and social orders, then one understands how the entire living world works. 

If a teenager uses a tree-trimmer to produce one mowed lawn valued at 50 dollars in 10 hours, his 'rate of production', in other words, the rate at which he consumes, uses, or reorders existing matter to create wealth, is 50 dollars divided by 10 hours, or 5 dollars per hour. If next month he uses a riding lawn-mower and mows the same lawn in 1 hour, he has increased his 'rate of production' 10-fold to fifty dollars per hour. 

Since production is just a transformation or relocation of existing wealth, the production of wealth requires the consumption or use of existing wealth. For example, if 1,000 men are to spend 2 years producing two skyscrapers, they must consume or use the existing concrete-materials-food-energy-transportation-shelter-wealth that they (as well as their dependents-family) need while they produce the skyscrapers. In other words, there can be no production if there does not already exist enough saved wealth that can be consumed or used while production takes place.

More money does not equal more wealth. Imagine if everyone in the world suddenly had an extra billion dollars. Would this make society wealthier? No. The amount of REAL wealth has not increased by a single toothpick. It would actually lead to less wealth since many people would stop working or producing seeing their new-found fortune. Would the 1,000 men above be able to produce 3 skyscrapers, instead of 2, if instead of having additional real wealth to use-consume just had extra pieces of paper with dead presidents on them? Of course not. The men may mistakenly rearrange how they use wealth to start the bases for 3 skyscrapers but eventually realize that there was only enough wealth to complete two, but by having mistakenly squandered wealth in 3 bases, they will only have enough wealth to complete just one skyscraper instead of the original two. This helps us understand how governments via their central banks create the economic cycles of booms and busts and can never help increase production by just creating more money to expand credit and loans for businesses to use. Money and credit expansion by governments just means that there is now more money per existing unit of wealth and thus higher prices which eventually wreaks havok in the profit and loss calculations of businessmen leading to bankruptcies, unfinished projects that wasted wealth, an economic bust. Mises explains:

“Credit expansion cannot increase the supply of real goods. It merely brings about a rearrangement. It diverts capital investment away from the course prescribed by the state of economic wealth and market conditions. It causes production to pursue paths which it would not follow unless the economy were to acquire an increase in material goods. As a result, the upswing lacks a solid base. It is not real prosperity. It is illusory prosperity. It did not develop from an increase in economic wealth. Rather, it arose because the credit expansion created the illusion of such an increase. Sooner or later it must become apparent that this economic situation is built on sand.”


'natural selection' in general can be said to have created two mechanisms for creating two types of orders, biological and social. The biological order is created via the well-known mechanism of 'biological evolution' with genes being like the sentences which store the information necessary to create-coordinate life-order. Mutations cause new genes and thus new information to arise which leads to a different life-form which is then 'naturally selected' as it inadvertently competes with others, with the winner reproducing more and thus passing on more copies of the better-adapted-"fitter" genes-information-design to future generations.



In the 'Social Organism' or economy, superior information arises and spreads thanks to economic competition which emerges from the tradition of private property. Private property means that wealth is under the exclusive control or ownership of a single person, mind or CPU. Each person is motivated to discover the best information with which to transform or reorder their private property in a way that increases its value or utility. Most of us transform the trillions of atoms that make up our bodies in a manner that maximizes the value or utility of the labor we produce and then trade with other people or companies. Some transform bread and beef to increase their value as hamburgers which are then traded with others, etc. From our freedom to use-transform our private property emerges the 'freedom to trade' it with anyone in the entire planet which inadvertently transforms mankind into a global supercomputer where people via the companies they create are motivated to innovate and learn from each other(competitors) thus inadvertently cooperate to discover and spread superior information and subsequent order. For example, a Honda engineer in Tokyo, Japan, may have invented power doorlocks which thanks to 'economic competition' motivated BMW in Germany, Ford in the USA, and other 'competitors' throughout the world to copy and thus spread superior information throughout the world. Why do producers they do this? Because people, in their role as consumers, have the 'freedom to trade' their life and order-sustaining wealth for what they calculate to be the better informed auto-manufacturers(competitors), and as producers, to go into the auto manufacturing business if they feel they have superior information. This in turn motivates all competitors to learn and copy each other, lest they not get enough revenue or wealth with which to pay their employees a competitive wage, so they use their 'freedom to trade' their labor to join the better-informed and thus more productive or efficient companies. Again, this need to be reiterated, this wonderful automatic mechanism of *COMPETITIVE KNOWLEDGE DISCOVERY* is "turned on" or "emerges" from the simple concept, or better said, tradition of 'private property'. Via advertising, competitors are motivated to spread the potential usefulness and superiority of their products or ideas as well as the defects or inferiority of their competitors thus accelerating the need to compete-copy-spread superior information.  

A mind or CPU anywhere in the planet that comes up with an improvement will benefit everyone in the world if they are 'free to trade' for his product or service which will also motivate all competitors in the world to likewise improve their actions or order. So we can see how just like in the Olympics we can discover the best athletes in the world due to global competition, so does having the 'freedom to trade' with everyone in the world allows the best ideas to compete and spread globally thus ensuring the best possible global order. 

As cost-cutting ideas emerge and inevitably spread via competition leading relative prices to continuously fall, new profitable ideas easily arise and once again spread via competition in an endless cycle of knowledge generation-innovation. For example, computers were once very expensive, but once the price of making them came down enough, people easily realized that every home could have them, which gave birth to our computerized world and the Internet and all the great things that flow from it. 

The more wealth is produced, the more wealth has to be offered in exchange for labor as companies compete against each other for the labor they need which helps explain why the economic pie grows for everyone. 

For example, imagine that after a shipwreck you end up in an island where everyone has a machine that can turn dirt into food. Tom wants your labor to build a home, Mark, to build a boat, and Gina to plant a garden. Competition will motivate them to offer you all the food you want and more.



In the free-private-competitive sector information constantly moves and evolves as it is ‘tested’-refined-preferred by the comparisons to other information by billions of minds or customers thus ensuring superior information spreads and is ideally adapted to each specific time and place. This mechanism is bypassed by government regulations which are top-down, coercive-competitionless-monopoly information which is not subject to continuous improvement or replacement via competition so they paralyze entire industries slowing down ‘competitive knowledge discovery’, driving up costs (more lawyers-regulators-bureaucrats), and potentially making criminals out of people who harm nobody but just prefer to do things differently. Hayek reminds us:

“The argument for liberty is not an argument against organization, which is one of the most powerful tools human reason can employ, but an argument against all exclusive, privileged, monopolistic organization, against the use of coercion to prevent others from doing better.”

Compare the increasingly regulated-paralyzed healthcare sector which has grown from consuming less than 5% of the economic pie in 1960 to over 20% today, to the free-competitive IT sector where even the poorest of Americans can afford rapidly improving amazing cell phones and technology. What a person must learn in order to legally offer medical advice via licensing of doctors, where he must learn it via licensing of medical schools, what chemical compounds can be legally consumed, how to test drugs, how the medical insurance industry should work, and countless other gigantic bodies of knowledge-information are dictated by monopolistic competition-less bureaucracies like the American Medical Association (AMA), the Food And Drug Administration (FDA), CDC and numerous others leading to sky-rocketing costs and the spectacular CovidMania tyranny. By comparison, the Information Technology sector has very few government regulations so competition motivates the discovery and spread of superior information at breakneck speed and is obviously transforming the world right before our eyes. Teenagers can work at Google-Microsoft-Amazon and write the software that keeps planes in the sky or people alive via software in medical equipment, yet there is no American Association of Computer Programmers dictating what or where such knowledge can be obtained. There is no government monopolistic bureaucracy ensuring the proper functioning of the software that runs PCs, smart-phones, the Internet, or ensuring the lack of malware or viruses in software. Thanks to this lack of monopolistic centralized decision making-regulating-paralyzing, education in the Software Development or IT world is astounding. At places like www.freecodecamp.org thousands of people are going from 0 experience to highly-paid computer programmers in just a few months for free. Economic ignorance leads many to believe that since one has to be seemingly more careful with medicine, such monopolistic regulatory oversight is somehow necessary. This is irrelevant, if it is superior knowledge that is needed, which includes figuring out how careful to be, freedom and competition is the best way to discover it, period. 


Nobody knows who the greatest programmers in the world are, there is rightly no Nobel prize for them, the nearly 30 million lines of complex computer code that make up the Linux Operating System that runs most of the world’s computers and is now an integral part of the ‘Social Organism’ were created not so much by ‘smart’ people, but by pure freedom and emerging competition. In graph below one can see how the more regulated a sector is (Hospital Services) the more expensive-paralyzed-consumptive it becomes.

Morals are knowledge which also emerges and spreads via economic competition. It is hard-working, tolerant, courteous people who thanks to competition inevitably motivate everyone else to be likewise. As Hayek writes:

“Competition is, after all, always a process in which a small number makes it necessary for larger numbers to do what they do not like, be it to work harder, to change habits, or to devote a degree of attention, continuous application, or regularity to their work which without competition would not be needed.”

As millions of Britons, Germans, Jews and others from all over the world came to America, it was ultimately the competition which grows from ‘private property’ and thus individual liberty and freedom which stripped these people of their otherwise nationalistic-ethnocentric-tribalistic identities and evolved what came to be seen as the classic American character-ethos of wanting to be seen as a reputable-honest businessman-professional who treats everyone with respect and wears a business suit as opposed to older religious-ethnocentric dress.

The role of governments or coercion should be minimized because governmental or ‘public sector’ bureaucracies, being COERCIVE MONOPOLIES which get their life-order-sustaining wealth through taxes-compulsion are immune to the competitive-information-spreading incentives and pressures which motivate private sector entities to keep up with the competition in terms of information and hustle. Central-government plans can’t work if people are free to not go along with them so they inevitably require compulsion-tyranny. The former Soviet Union had plenty of highly educated scientists-“experts” whose plans required the coercion of millions, but they were thoroughly crushed by relatively freer Americans and their resulting superior “competitive knowledge discovery”. The “classic” image below helps explain the difference between competitive-private-free orders(South Korea) and monopolistic-government-coerced orders (North Korea). Keep your eye on how information arises/spreads via competition and continuously restructures the social order. 

While at this, let us briefly summarize the Mises-Hayek explanation of why Socialism of the Soviet or Communist type must always lead to more consumption than production thus a shrinking or death of the social order. 

A restaurant in Miami sells a burger for 8 dollars. The 8 dollar price provides vital information. Perhaps 1 dollar, might be profit, and 7 will be spent in costs, in other words, in the necessary consumption or use of existing wealth needed to produce the burger, things like equipment, labor and everything employees will consume at home (food, energy) thanks to their paychecks that came from the $7 per burger. The businessman discovered 1) that there are enough customers nearby willing to patronize the restaurant at the 8 dollar per burger price, and 2) how to reorder 7 dollars worth of stuff(labor-supplies-etc.) to produce the burger. If he sets prices too high, customers will choose other existing superior competing restaurants, if too low, they might not cover costs and cause the business to consume more than it produces leading to an overall shrinking of the economic pie. Socialism/Communism can’t work because only businessmen dispersed throughout society, not central planning "experts",  are at the right time and place needed to discover people’s desires(1) and (2) the information needed to properly set prices and coordinate a profitable order (one that produces more than it consumes).


It is important to envision the socioeconomic order as it really exists as if looked at from high above. Envision people coming together-apart as companies-orders emerge and dissolve in ever-changing conditions. Superior information arising and rippling-restructuring the social order thanks to competition. As orders get more productive they lure people to ‘trade-with’ and thus ’join-them’ by offering more wealth for their labor eventually causing the least productive orders to sort of dissolve as their ‘factors of production’ like labor, buildings, etc. are bid away to be parts of the better informed and thus more productive plans or orders. A sort of swarm intelligence emerges as the all-pervasive public constantly uses its ‘freedom to trade’ its wealth for what it calculates to be best to nourish the growth and spread of superior orders-companies-information, inadvertently expanding the worldwide “division of labor and information” as entire neighborhoods-cities morph themselves in specialized ways as complementary pieces of information-tools-orders segregate themselves in distinct geographical locations like the software industry in Silicon Valley, California and manufacturing in Guangdong, southern China. As Ludwig von Mises reminds us “The division of labour is a fundamental principle of all forms of life.” The division of labor is a pattern or way which natural selection rediscovers to enable smaller units to efficiently compartmentalize labor and information as they contribute-to (and are nourished-by) a larger organism they become parts of. Organelles contribute to Cells which contribute to tissues and Organs which contribute to Humans which contribute to the "Social Organism" which produces the wealth that nourishes them all. 


Thus private property, freedom, and emerging ‘competitive knowledge discovery’, as opposed to leading to chaos, 1) is what enables and motivates the discovery and spread of superior information which continuously increases the rate at which mankind reorders a tiny fraction of the earth’s massive volume of 260 billion cubic miles into the wealth that grows the "Social Organism", 2) civilizes us 3) protects us from being coerced into doing things we don’t want to do, and 4) is also vital for discovering THE TRUTH!

"Competitive knowledge discovery", coupled with money, interest rates, the finance and banking industries, stock markets, as well as the governmental-religious-legal structures which enforce rules that sustain their functioning, taken as a whole make up ‘The Market Process’. ‘The Market Process’ is to civilization or ‘The Social Organism’ what the respiratory, circulatory, nervous, and other “biological systems” are to multicellular organisms. Like language, it is something that is "indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design”. 



So how did this wonderful ‘market process’ and resulting ‘Social Organism’ evolve without man’s deliberate intention? As Menger phrased it:

“How can it be that institutions which serve the common welfare and are extremely significant for its development come into being without a common will directed toward establishing them?”

Similarly, how did man create language without deliberately designing it? How did cells create the respiratory and other systems without deliberately designing them? In both cases neither man nor cells did the designing, it was en evolutionary process.

Writing in the late 1800s after Darwin showed us how the biological order could arise without design via an evolutionary process, Carl Menger knew that the key was to also look at society as an organism in an evolutionary manner. Like Darwin, Menger was a fan of and arguably heavily influenced by Herbert Spencer’s all-encompassing evolutionary framework. Spencer summarizes:

“We have to deal with man as a product of evolution, with society as a product of evolution, and with moral phenomena as products of evolution.”

Herbert Spencer was “the single most famous European intellectual in the closing decades of the nineteenth century” and a personal acquaintance of Darwin who in a correspondence to Spencer said to him “Every one with eyes to see and ears to hear (the number, I fear, are not many) ought to bow their knee to you, and I for one do”, and in another occasion referred to Spencer as “twenty times my superior.”

Menger writes of Spencer: “the works of … H. Spencer… which are excellent in their way, have really contributed essentially to a deepening of the theoretical understanding of social phenomena”.

Menger stressed the need to study the social order with the tools of biology or organisms. He writes:

“Now if social phenomena and natural organisms exhibit analogies with respect to their nature, their origin, and their function, it is at once clear that this fact cannot remain without influence on the method of research in the field of the social sciences in general and economics in particular….Now if state, society, economy, etc., are conceived of as organisms, or as structures analogous to them, the notion of following directions of research in the realm of social phenomena similar to those followed in the realm of organic nature readily suggests itself”


Menger thus felt like the methods of the physical sciences, like their use of mathematics, was as inappropriate for understanding the monumental complexity and evolution of the social order as it was for the biological one. He writes:

“I do not belong to the believers in the mathematical method as a way to deal with our science….Mathematics is not a method for...economic research”

Mises and Hayek would of course follow suite. Mises:

“As a method of economic analysis econometrics is a childish play with figures that does not contribute anything to the elucidation of the problems of economic reality.”

Hayek also ridicules the:

“…extensive use of mathematics, which must always impress politicians lacking any mathematical education, and which is really the nearest thing to the practice of magic that occurs among professional economists”


Knowing that 'private property' is the vital concept that leads to a chain-reaction of incentives which creates the Social Organism, we can easily look back at history and see that those tribes-cultures whose customs-religions inadvertently became more peaceful and thus less violent, extended peace-friendship-trade to those outside the tribe, etc., in other words, those who tended to respect 'private property' and thus individual freedom more and more, would become more advanced-powerful, and as they grew, they would inadvertently spread the very customs (increasing respect for private property, tolerance, and commercial culture that emerges from it) and evolving economic system (market process-capitalism) that allowed them to reach such relative heights. Once again, the true sort of 'designer' of the market process was our old friend 'natural selection'-competition acting on groups-cultures, inadvertently selecting those customs-ideologies-concepts as if they were genes. 

Essentially 50,000 years ago there was a sort of petri dish of cultures-tribes, and ‘natural selection’ or competition selected those whose sort of ‘cultural mutations’ led to a more productive-fitter-powerful social order, with “respect for private property” ultimately being the most important tradition given the ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ that inadvertently emerged from it. This ‘cultural evolution’ happened mostly without the design-intention-reason of homo sapiens.

An example of this process was the Protestant Reformation. For centuries the Catholic Church’s traditions held immense coercive-monopoly-competitionless power which prevented-retarded individual freedom and resulting ‘competitive knowledge discovery’. In the early 1500s Martin Luther preached that a person could be saved by believing in Christ without the Catholic Church’s approval, and that the Bible itself, not the Pope or Church’s edicts-interpretations, was what mattered. This helped reduce-eliminate the coercive-monopoly power of the Church and spark a pro-freedom and thus emergent ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ that would lead to skyrocketing rates of innovation-production-prosperity per graph below.

Now, very important! Did Martin Luther reason that his religious reinterpretations would accelerate ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ in Europe leading to Capitalism there thus taking 'the white man' to relative prominance? Of course not! Again, just like solitary cells billions of years ago inadvertently created the respiratory-circulatory-nervous-etc. “systems” that led to multicellular organisms without ‘designing them’, so is free-market-Capitalism “indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design”. Language had been Homo sapiens' latest unplanned innovation until the last few thousand years where the emerging 'market process' and resulting 'Social Organism' has come along, and both were not the result of our reason! As Hayek explains:

“We have never designed our economic system. We were not intelligent enough for that. We have stumbled into it and it has carried us to unforeseen heights and given rise to ambitions which may yet lead us to destroy it.”

And regarding private property:

“…I am quite convinced nobody invented it for a known purpose, and to me the proof of this is that even now hardly anybody yet understands what the advantages of private property and the market society are.”


The above types of evolutionary insights are the key to understanding why we have this wonderful 'market process' that continously reorders us in increasingly technologically advanced ways yet we remain tribalistic dangerous apes often-times using the technology to increase the tribal slaughters as happened in our world wars. 

By the late 1800s, especially after Darwin, the slightly smarter apes began replacing the evolved wisdom-information-laws espoused by religious mythology (private property, freedom and family) which had tamed the savages into civilization (Exodus 22:19 “Anyone who has sexual relations with an animal is to be put to death.), by the “reason” of “expert-scientist” apes. Not having the slightest clue how the vital information that orders-creates civilization “emerges” from ‘private property’-freedom since this amazing mechanisms had been designed, not by clever men, but by an evolutionary process we didn’t even really understand at the time, they understandably fell for all the usual anti-Capitalist and central planning fallacies. They saw economic freedom as a recipe for chaos, exploitation and ‘social injustice’. Some like Hitler (a socialist) erroneously saw many aspects of finance-banking-stock-markets, especially due to the at-times overrepresentation of Jews, as some sinister and malicious way for Jews-Capitalists to enrich themselves at the expense of others. Most ultimately believed that a competitionless coercive tax-funded coercive monopoly of “experts”-ideologues-“great leaders” could better order society, and increasingly saw religion and its traditions of private property and family as something backward, unnatural, and a tool of the growing business-Capitalist-”Bourgeoisie” class, or just selfish people in general that “don’t care about others”. Just like complex environmental factors create selective pressures that favor the spread of certain genes, the environment was ripe for the emergence of a new religion-mythology, Socialism-Communism-Statism. Eventually some slightly smarter arrogant ape would describe these increasingly popular fallacies-myths in a manner that was bound to go viral and that is what happened with Karl Marx and his bite-sized ‘Communist Manifesto’ where he summarizes:

“the theory of the Communists may be summed up in the single sentence: Abolition of private property”….”Abolition of the family!”

The slightly smarter apes via Vladimir Lenin’s Bolshevik revolution in Russia (1918) and other apes throughout the world (Mao-China, Castro-Cuba, Pol Pot-Cambodia) with the utmost arrogance and cruelty went wild using their “reason” or “the science”(as we call it today) and instincts to create massive central-planning-coercive bureaucracies that destroyed ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ and thus their own socioeconomic order that was created by it.

Lenin, as well as most people, believed that “the key feature is people, the proper choice of people”, and if we could just have the right experts or 'Great Leaders’ with the right values-ideas government and ‘central planning’ would work. But Lenin was wrong of course, it is not so much the individual cells-people that matter, it is the system, it is freedom and its emergent ‘competitive knowledge discovery’ and socioeconomic order spreading mechanisms. It makes perfect sense how a bunch of economically clueless vicious slightly smarter tribal apes would go wild looking for and pledging support to the ape they feel has the right personal qualities (courage, honesty, intelligence, toughness, etc.) and coercing each other via governments to go along with the “master plans” as they inadvertently destroyed the very non-human-designed customs-traditions like private property which gave them life to begin with.

It is important that we see man's constant clamor for coercive 'central planning' and Lenin’s Bolshevik Revolution not as some ‘nefarious conspiracy’, but as an almost inevitable spread of viral self-reinforcing ‘echo chambers’ of economic fallacies and disastrous ‘incentive structures’ that were just bound to finally spark in truly sustainable reactions as the social order got more complex and thus more fertile for economic fallacies. A young idealistic Russian could worry about how to make a good living in the always-uncertain and competitive private sector, or by joining Lenin and his Socialist Bolsheviks(government) he could become a hero to mankind by just forcing farmers, the ‘private sector’ and others to give up (share) their grain-wealth to feed a bureaucracy-monopoly of “experts” who would plan a superior order. Sign me up! We should also highlight the fact that the apes ultimately stumble upon the realization that in order to carry out their wonderful-vital central plans, they must either coerce the public directly via edicts-taxes-regulations, or even better, simply control the ability to create money. It becomes a lot easier to create an ‘incentive structure’ where most people go along with your wonderful ideas when you can create the money and assure the public that you can provide the money/wealth they need. The money=wealth fallacy-myth easily causes the slightly smarter apes to self-destroy as 1) It allows transfers of wealth from the productive-innovative private sector to the centrally-planned inefficiently ordered bureaucracies which will consume more than they produce thus destroying social order 2) It easily motivates the apes to peacefully fool themselves and even clamor for such an ultimately disastrous rearrangement and attack the critics(obviously “right-wing extremists”). The apes go from fear and uncertainty to the comfort of working towards the ‘master plan’ by the ‘trusted expert apes’ and see how they are getting the money they foolishly equate with wealth. As this happens, more wealth is transferred to the minds that want to spread and make a living via the ‘central planning’ fallacies-myths-‘echo chamber’ from those that don’t, making it harder for the latter to resist until complete central planning tyranny-chaos is reached. As Spencer explains:

“Increasing power of a growing administrative organization is accompanied by decreasing power of the rest of the society to resist its further growth and control.”

We can easily see the inadvertent evolution and repetition of this process today where what increasingly matters to politicians-ideologues-masses is who will appoint or control the technocrats who run the ‘central banks’ or 'Federal Reserve’ and will thus be able to keep creating money-“stimulus” to seemingly accomplish anything like having millions not work or produce and stay home during CovidMania lockdowns, the Green New Deal, free education and healthcare, ‘racial-gender equality’, etc. The central banking technocrats are the new Popesor or Oracles of the new faith or religion of ‘central planning’, not via Soviet Style direct threats or edicts, but by nonetheless using money to attempt a similarly disastrous and fateful ‘centrally planned’ rearrangement of society. Visit gatesnotes.com or weforum.org for an up-to-date list of all potential ‘social problems’ and how the 6 pounds of flesh in economically clueless ideologues like Bill Gates and Klaus Schwab’s heads have ‘master plans’ that can fix them all, or we die.

Fortunately for mankind these 'Austrian Economists', especially Ludwig von Mises, nearly single-handedly put the intellectual brakes on Socialist expansion when he showed the impossibility of central planning (summarized above) and persuaded Austrian politicians away from Communism-Bolshevism in 1919. As Mises recalls:

“I knew what was at stake. Bolshevism would lead Vienna to starvation and terror within a few days. Plundering hordes would take to the streets and a second blood bath would destroy what was left of Viennese culture.”.. “The most important task I undertook…was the forestalling of a Bolshevist takeover… The fact that events did not lead to such a regime in Vienna was my success and mine alone.” –Mises (Memoirs)

Later Hayek’s classic book “The Road to Serfdom”(1944), but also perhaps more importantly, the brilliantly written ‘condensed’ version which “Reader’s Digest” magazine placed in millions of US homes in 1945, would play a vital role in educating future freemarketeers like future British PM Margaret Thatcher, and 3-time presidential candidate Dr. Ron Paul who writes:

“My introduction to Austrian economics came when I was studying medicine at Duke University and came across a copy of Hayek’s The Road to Serfdom. After devouring this, I was determined to read whatever I could find on what I thought was this new school of economic thought — especially the works of Mises”


It is important that we see our problems in terms of an understandable economic ignorance for which no one is really to blame. Again, ‘the market process’ and resulting civilization has inadvertently evolved without man’s deliberate design, and our tribalistic instincts and economic ignorance has us constantly falling for coercive central planning that will eventually destroy the social order. It should be easy to realize that Socialism-Communism-Nazism did not spread and destroy much of the 20th century because of a few bad apples or tyrants; they first spread through the minds of well-meaning citizens and intellectuals which then gave the future leaders the moral and intellectual justification for their actions. Hayek writes:

“It is necessary to realize that the sources of many of the most harmful agents in this world are often not evil men but high-minded idealists, and that in particular the foundations of totalitarian barbarism have been laid by honourable and well-meaning scholars who never recognized the offspring they produced.” 

Hayek again:

“Most people are still unwilling to face the most alarming lesson of modern history: that the greatest crimes of our time have been committed by governments that had the enthusiastic support of millions of people who were guided by moral impulses. It is simply not true that Hitler or Mussolini, Lenin or Stalin, appealed only to the worst instincts of their people: they also appealed to some of the feelings which also dominate contemporary democracies.” 

When one looks at the biographies of fellow freemarketeers it is easy to notice how prior to stumbling upon the proper understanding of economics most were essentially “wild” humans, Socialists-Communists-Statists to various degrees. This just makes sense, our nature is that of the ‘Law of the Jungle’, how freedom leads to order instead of chaos is definitely not ‘in our genes’. Jealousy, vilification, tribalism… It all seems so obvious when we stand on the above men’s shoulders. 

Most of us mistakenly believe that the best thing we could do for ourselves is to work hard, be productive, etc. Sounds reasonable right? Yes and no, although those things are important, perhaps it is even more important to join Mises in his “intellectual battle”, right about NOW!. He writes:

“Everyone carries a part of society on his shoulders; no one is relieved of his share of responsibility by others. And no one can find a safe way out for himself if society is sweeping towards destruction. Therefore, everyone, in his own interests, must thrust himself vigorously into the intellectual battle. None can stand aside with unconcern; the interests of everyone hang on the result. Whether he chooses or not, every man is drawn into the great historical struggle, the decisive battle into which our epoch has plunged us.”

If mankind proves to be an evolutionary dead end in the near future as certainly looks to be the case, it will not be because of the “evil” or clueless politicians and masses. It will be because those who have had the fortune of stumbling upon these and like-minded men’s ideas failed to educate fellow citizens.





