"Economic ignorance as the Souce of Jew/Gentile frictions. Hitler’s intellectual errors (Socialism, racialism, anti-Semitism) and the vital need for Jews to properly understand them.” By Jorge Besada.


Although modern Western governments claim to have separation of Church and State, the quasi-religious concept of "evil" still dominates much of our thinking and this is especially the case when it come to Hitler. 

From a simple evolutionary perspective Human beings are the smarter apes we refer to as homo sapiens, whatever good or bad they do is overwhelmingly the result of a sequence of thoughts and ideas intertwined with a human nature we all share. 

It should be obvious to realize that had men like Hitler, Stalin, and Mao been born in different times to different parents they would not have grown up to absorb the disastrous ideas that they did. 

Human beings grow up absorbing a continuously evolving culture-language-"identity"-ideas-myths which then leads them to act in ways that lead to disorder via conflict-war, or order via peace and prosperity. As Mises tells us:

"It is ideas that group men into fighting factions, that press the weapons into their hands, and that determine against whom and for whom the weapons shall be used. It is they alone, and not arms, that, in the last analysis, turn the scales."

In this discussion we want to further expand on some of the points brought up by Prof. Block and continue to analize the economic fallacies that lead to Jew/Gentile frictions which inadvertently radiate naive and dangerously polarizing  good vs. evil thinking througout the world. 


People absorb a cultural identity and sense of history that persists through generations (Jewish, Christian, Muslim, etc.) and these identities due to complex factors which we have very briefly dealt with find themselves embroiled in deep hatreds which are very understandable. The Jews can easily point to centuries of ill treatment at the hands of surrounding larger religions. And Palestinians and other Non-Jews in the region can find plenty of legitimate reasons to hate the Jews. Let us try to look at the history of these hatreds from such an evolutionary perspective.... 

We have to cut a few corners and fast forward from about 100,000 years ago where there were thousands of little ethnocentric tribes to about 2,000 years ago when some of these pockets were being integrated-absorbed into growing empires. So we got Jews, one of these many ethnocentric groups-"identities", then a Jew by the name of Jesus says he is the son of God and a sort of cultural mutation of Judaism in the form of Christianity emerges. Christianity lost the ethnocentrism that Judaism contains (generally speaking your mother has to be Jewish) which encouraged members to proselytize and rapidly grow in numbers, spreading the great-viral-simple "Ten Commandments", winning converts who are not supposed to kill each other thus trade relatively peacefully, inadvertently helping spread the "market process" and division of labor-information. If we look at Christianity, some of its rules which differed from what was more mainstream at the time and inadvertently led to its growth were things like the prohibition of infanticide, condemnation of divorce, incest, marital infidelity and polygamy. In the Greco-Roman world where Christianity emerged, infanticide, especially of girls, was a common and accepted practice leading to populations of more males than females. For example, there were 131 males per 100 females in the city of Rome, and 140 males per 100 females in Italy, Asia Minor, and North Africa. (Stark, p. 97) The prohibition of infanticide would help Christian populations grow faster. These values-rules coupled with the relatively higher status afforded to women made this new religious movement much more appealing to women who would often times convert their husbands thus helping the religion and its values spread. Did early Christian theologians know that such values would play a significant role in the growth of Christianity and its success? Did they plan this? I doubt it. Again, these things "are indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design". 

Remaining an inevitably smaller ethnocentric ideology led to the history of ill treatment-friction-expulsions Jews have experienced at the hands of the larger Christianity-Islam. Unfortunate, but what can we do, we are slightly smarter apes after all. The best we can hope for is to become "civilized" slightly smarter apes, which we do by understanding what leads to civilization, private property, intellectual freedom and the selection of superior information-TRUTH and order that emerges from it. 

At around 610 A.D., a great Arab merchant-businessman, Mohammed, whose wife Khadija was Mecca's most prominent venture capitalist who invested in large trade caravans, was visited by the angel Gabriel(the same Gabriel mentioned in the Old Testament’s Book of Daniel) and given the word of God which became Islam’s holy book, the Qur’an. The Qur’an treats Christianity’s main prophet, Jesus, as well as Judaism’s Moses as God’s earlier prophets, but with Mohammed being the last prophet and having compiled the Qur’an directly from divinity, this makes it, according to Muslims, the correct-superior interpretation of God’s word. Islam saw Christians and Jews as “People of the Book”(ahl al-kitāb), or people who had been guided by earlier true prophets and worshiped the one true God according to Islam. This gave Christians and Jews and later other non-believers special albeit inferior standing in the Islamic world, they became “dhimmis” or “protected peoples”. The economic policies of early Islam played an important role in its fast growth. According to tax historian Charles Adams, one of the reasons Islam spread so fast during its infancy was due to the relief of oppressive Roman taxation that converts would enjoy. Adam writes: 

“In less than 120 years, with an offer of tax immunity, Islam spread very quickly, expanding into India in the East and coming to a halt at the Atlantic Ocean in the West. The main loser was Christianity, which was tied to the oppressive Roman tax system. No religion, before or since, has spread so far, so fast.” 

Unfortunately, yet understandably given the ideological state of mankind at the time, the Qur'an has verses which are highly critical of Jews (to put it kindly). For example :

"Thou wilt surely find the most hostile of men to the believers are the Jews and the idolaters;"

So it is very easy for Jews to point to such passages to justify their nearly intuitive believe that Islam is antisemitic. However, there is truth to that statement as well. It is understandable how Jews who don't believe that Muhammed was some legitimate prophet might offend Muslims. Consider the following. On Oct 16th, 2010 Rabbi Ovadia Yosef, founder and spiritual leader of the largest religious political party in Israel(Shas) which won 11 of 120 Knesset seats in the 2009 elections, and is also a former Sephardi Chief Rabbi of Israel which can be seen as the sort of Pope of the Sephardic Jews, said in a sermon that:

>“Goyim[non-Jews] were born only to serve us. Without that, they have no place in the world – only to serve the People of Israel,"...“Why are gentiles needed? They will work, they will plow, they will reap. We will sit like an effendi and eat. That is why gentiles [were created,”](https://www.timesofisrael.com/5-of-ovadia-yosefs-most-controversial-quotations/)

His funeral was attended by over 800,000 adoring fellow homo sapiens who inherited a "Jewish identity" in Jerusalem...If this fellow homo sapien can expose such views a decade into the 21st century just imagine what other Rabbis in the even more mystical past would say about non-Jews and the understandable bad blood between them and surrounding Muslims-Christians. Little else needs to be said about the tribal-identity in-fighting between the various groups of homo sapiens. We fast forward.

The classic and perhaps most important example of the co-evolution of the 'market process' and culture can be seen with the emergence of modern banking-finance. Finance, banking, and interest rates are other vital aspects of the 'Market Process' and emerging Social Organism. Besides the more obvious function of safeguarding savings and pooling the savings of many people to allow the execution of bigger projects which would have been impossible if entrepreneurs were limited to the few savings-wealth of friends and family, banking-finance and more specifically the phenomenon of 'interest rates' also play a nearly miraculous role. Thanks to finance and banking people are motivated to save and thus refrain from consumption thus leaving more wealth available for borrowers who then get to consume this wealth as they grow the economic pie by an amount that has to be greater than prevailing interest rates, so they can pay pack the loans with interest. This gives a monumental sort of 'computational boost' to society, as saved wealth is accumulated and placed under the control of minds or CPUs that have good ideas. Without finance and banking entrepreneurs would have a much much harder time obtaining the necessary wealth needed to implement their superior ideas thus greatly slowing down the rate at which the social order continuously grows and morphs itself in more productive and technologically advanced way. Unfortunately people through the ages do not understand this and tend to see people getting rich without physical labor by just lending money as somewhat immoral or unfair.


Islam has strong prohibitions against charging interest(usury) which have short-circuited or greatly hampered the market process’ evolution in the Islamic world. The following passages from the Qur’an are perhaps the most relevant:

>“That they took usury, though they were forbidden; and that they devoured men's substance wrongfully;- we have prepared for those among them who reject faith a grievous punishment.” 4:161

>“Those who devour usury will not stand except as stands one whom the Evil One by his touch has driven to madness. That is because they say: “Trade is like usury,” but Allah has permitted trade and forbidden usury...” 2:275

>“Allah will deprive usury of all blessing, but will give increase for deeds of charity: for He does not love ungrateful and wicked creatures.” 2:276

Christianity’s New Testament seems more usury-friendly via passages like, Luke 19:23  “Why, then, didst thou not put money in a bank, so that I on my return might have gotten it with interest?” , but Luke 6:35 “But love your enemies, do good to them, and lend to them without expecting to get anything back” could be used to support an anti-usury position which is what the Church enforced for over a thousand years before eventually abandoning the strong anti-usury stand.

When it comes to Judaism and the Old Testament, God’s message is one that shuns charging interest between Israelites-Jews but allows it to be charged to non-Israelites. The most influential verses are Deuteronomy 23:20 “You may charge a foreigner interest, but not a brother Israelite…” and Exodus 22:25 “If you lend money to one of my people among you who is needy, do not be like a moneylender; charge him no interest.” This is a good example of mankind’s tribal ethnocentrism shunning a practice which is believed to be bad within the group, but allowing its use with those outside the group. The fourteenth-century French Jew Levi ben Gershom felt it was good to burden the gentile with interest ‘because one should not benefit an idolator… and cause him as much damage as possible without deviating from righteousness.’ (Johnson, Paul. (1988). A History of the Jews. , p. 174)

The few religious scriptures we have just read have had profound ramifications. In a Christian world that would excommunicate usurers-moneylenders, Jews being immune to excommunication and now without Christian competition found an advantage as moneylenders-bankers, although an advantage that also came with risky court battles as Christian creditors would sometimes try to play the “charging interest is against God” card when it came to paying their debts. The prevalence of Jews as moneylenders even shows itself in the Magna Carta where there is a small section establishing some rules when dealing with Jewish moneylenders. Historian Paul Johnson writes:

“The Jews reacted by engaging in the one business where Christian laws actually discriminated in their favour, and so became identified with the hated trade of moneylending. Rabbi Joseph Colon, who knew both France and Italy in the second half of the fifteenth century, wrote that the Jews of both countries hardly engaged in any other profession” (Johnson, Paul. (1988). A History of the Jews. , p. 174)

Johnson mentions other ways in which Jews helped push the world in a more capitalist direction. One was financial innovation via their influence in the development of stock markets. Another was their stress on the importance of advertising. Better advertising speeds up competition and its spread of superior ideas-products so it is a great boost to civilization-order. Johnson also mentions how “Jews were exceptionally adept at gathering and making use of commercial intelligence.”  For centuries Jews had evolved into a sort of extended family that covered much of the Western world, “they ran sensitive and speedy information systems which enabled them to respond rapidly to political and military events and to the changing demands of regional, national and world markets.”  The September 27th 1712 issue of England’s Spectator described the Jew’s influence as follows:

"They are so disseminated through all the trading Parts of the World, that they are become the instruments by which the most distant Nations converse with one another and by which mankind are knit together in a general correspondence. They are like the pegs and nails in a great building, which though they are but little valued in themselves, are absolutely necessary to keep the whole frame together." (Sombart "The Jews and Modern Capitalism", p. 171)

It was bad enough that they rejected the divinity of Christianity and Islam and practiced usury; but Jews were also fierce competitors who would upset Christian businessmen by disrupting their anti-competitive customs, all for the great benefit of the consumer and European social order and culture of course. Historian-Economist Werner Sombart mentions how according to the values at the time “To take away your neighbour’s customers was contemptible, unchristian, and immoral” (Sombart, p. 129). For example, in 1745 Toulouse France, Christian traders complained that “everybody runs to the Jewish traders.” (Sombart, p. 126) In Poland, 1619, “difficulties and stumbling-blocks are put in the way of merchants and craftsmen by the competition of Jews” (Sombart, p. 126). In England, 17th century English merchant and one time governor of the East India Company Josiah Child mentioned, “The Jews are a subtil people… depriving the English merchant of that profit he would otherwise gain.”[108] In Prussia, 1750 “The merchants of our town…complain… that Jewish traders who sell the same goods do them a great harm, because they sell at a lower price.” (Sombart, p. 142) Mises writes:

"The Nazis have an ally in every town or village where there is a man eager to get rid of a Jewish competitor. The secret weapon of Hitler is the anti-Jewish inclinations of many millions of shopkeepers and grocers, of doctors and lawyers, professors and writers." [(Mises, "Omnipotent Government")](https://oll.libertyfund.org/titles/mises-omnipotent-government-the-rise-of-the-total-state-and-total-war/simple)

Hitler, who like most popular leaders was simply the embodiment of the economic fallacies-myths-prejudices of the times, was of course a 'National Socialist', who had little understanding of the vital role that economic freedom plays in society and erroneously saw things like the emerging stock markets and finance industry, especially given the relative over-representation of Jews, as some gimmick-scam plotted by them to the detriment of non-Jews. His fallacies-ignorance can easily be seen in numerous excerpts like this one from a speech given in Munich on July 28th, 1922:

"The vast process of the industrialization of the peoples meant the confluence of great masses of workmen in the towns...Parallel with this was a gradual 'moneyfication' of the whole of the nation's labor-strength. 'Share-capital' was in the ascendant, and thus bit by bit the Stock Exchange came to control the whole national economy. The directors of these institutions were, and are without exception, Jews. I say 'without exception,' for the few non-Jews who had a share in them are in the last resort nothing but screens, shop-window Christians, whom one needs in order, for the sake of the masses, to keep up the appearance that these institutions were after all founded as a natural outcome of the needs and the economic life of all peoples alike, and were not, as was the fact, institutions which correspond only with the essential characteristics of the Jewish people and are the outcome of those characteristics." [(Hitler)](http://comicism.tripod.com/220728.html)



Next, Let us also briefly discuss some of the environmental-'evolutionary factors'-pressures which unfortunately attracted so many Jews to Socialism-Communism with disastrous repercussions. How prevalent were Jews in spreading-implementing Socialist-Communist ideology? First of all there was Karl Marx, Socialism-Communism's main intellectual who gave the movement enough of a naïve intellectual aura to mislead hundreds of future would-be dictators-intellectuals. Leon Trotsky(born Lev Davidovich Bronstein), founder of the Red Army, second only to Lenin and most likely to succeed him as leader of the Russian communists was also an ethnic Jew. Slezkine writes:

"At the First All-Russian Congress of Soviets in June 1917, at least 31 percent of Bolshevik delegates(and 37 percent of Unified Social Democrats) were Jews. At the Bolshevik Central Committee meeting of October 23, 1917, which voted to launch an armed insurrection, 5 out of the 12 members present were Jews. Three out of seven Politbureau members charged with leading the October uprising were Jews(Trotsky, Zinoviev, and Grigory Sokolnikov)." (Slezkine,"The Jewish Century" p. 175)

According to Lenin, it was thanks to Jews that his Bolsheviks were able to "take over the state apparatus" in Russia. Lenin mentions:

>"The fact that there were many Jewish intelligentsia members in the Russian cities was of great importance to the revolution. They put an end to the general sabotage that we were confronted with after the October Revolution… The Jewish elements were mobilized… and thus saved the revolution at a difficult time. It was only thanks to this pool of a rational and literate labor force that we succeeded in taking over the state apparatus" (Slezkine, "The Jewish Century" p. 224)

For a people who were sometimes seen as foreigners, Socialism's international brotherhood ("Workers of the world, unite!" was to be a popular rallying cry) would seem to have an additional appeal and be a perfect fit for a people who were already a sort of international family. Socialism's atheism would also do away with a major source of Jewish troubles now that everyone was supposed to be atheist-irreligious in the new scientific and rational Socialist world. The central and viral economic fallacy of Socialism, that having smart people-"experts" plan the social order would be better than letting selfish and greedy businessmen do so, needed the smarter and better educated to be the planners, and this is exactly what Jews were compared to the rest (at least in Russia), thus naturally rising to the top of the movement. Historian William Johnston writes that "Jews had enjoyed many centuries of literacy before the rest of Europe started to become literate in the eighteenth century."

Chaim Weizmann recalls in his autobiography the simple fact that: "the non-Jewish population had not the same overwhelming thirst for knowledge as the Jews, who were always knocking at the doors of the schools."

This large participation-association of ethnic Jews with Socialism would have disastrous consequences for the majority of Jews who did not want to be a part of Socialism or much less abandon their faith and traditions. As Lenin and Trotsky were launching post-World War One Russia into a civil war(1918–22) between the Communist Red Army and the White Russian Army which supported the Russian Monarchy and old order-institutions, Jews would pay a heavy price. Johnson writes that:

"The consequences for the Jews both immediate and long-term, both locally and world-wide, were appalling. The White Russian armies, seeking to destroy the Soviet regime, treated all Jews as enemies. In the Ukraine, the Civil War developed into the most extensive pogrom in Jewish history. There were more than 1,000 separate incidents involving the killing of Jews. Over 700 communities in the Ukraine were involved and several hundred more in Russia. Between 60,000 and 70,000 Jews were murdered. In other parts of eastern Europe, a similar identification of Jews with Bolshevism led directly to murderous attacks on harmless Jewish communities. They were particularly bloody in Poland after the failure of the Bolshevik invasion and in Hungary after the fall of the Bela Kun regime. They occurred intermittently in Rumania throughout the 1920s. In all three countries the local Communist Parties had been largely created and run by Non-Jewish Jews, and in each case it was the unpolitical, traditional, observant Jews of the ghettos and villages who paid the penalty." (Johnson, "A History of the Jews", p. 452)

Again, it needs to be stressed, as Johnson just mentioned: "In all three countries the local Communist Parties had been largely created and run by Non-Jewish Jews". Thus it is quite understandable how so many like Hitler, Churchill and many Europeans came to associate-equate Jews with it. 

We are now in a position to fully appreciate Herzl's wisdom when he summarizes: 

>"We are what the Ghetto made us. We have attained pre-eminence in finance, because mediaeval conditions drove us to it. The same process is now being repeated. We are again being forced into finance, now it is the stock exchange, by being kept out of other branches of economic activity. Being on the stock exchange, we are consequently exposed afresh to contempt. At the same time we continue to produce an abundance of mediocre intellects who find no outlet, and this endangers our social position as much as does our increasing wealth. Educated Jews without means are now rapidly becoming Socialists. Hence we are certain to suffer very severely in the struggle between classes, because we stand in the most exposed position in the camps of both Socialists and [capitalists."](https://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/quot-the-jewish-state-quot-theodor-herzl) 



We must emphasize that Socialist-Communist ideology, rooted on easy to absorb economic fallacies, was already occurring in the Western world and can be seen as an almost inevitable mistake as mankind tried to make sense of the workings of the social order-economy which was quickly growing in bewildering complexity. Jews were inadvertently in a position to be more attracted to Socialism and Capitalism and be leaders in both. They obviously did not "invent" or "plot" Socialism-Communism-Capitalism like Hitler and many others to this day claim. It could be said that they were 'naturally selected' to be Socialist-Capitalist-finance leaders, thus giving the impression that they were its "creators-plotters". Jewish involvement in such movements was "indeed the result of human action, but not the execution of any human design." If "the Jews" were smart enough to "plot" the numerous things the non-Jewish world accuses them of, they would have been smart enough to realize that Socialism-Communism was a disaster for Jew and non-Jew alike and have been telling everyone about fellow Jew Ludwig von Mises and have built him a 20+ feet solid gold statue and placed it in front of the Western Wall. The fact that they have yet to do this is further evidence that Jews in general are as lost in ignorance as the rest.


Had more intellectuals of influence understood Hitler's fallacies, the naive vilification of his government and inevitable polarization leading to World War two could have been avoided. Hitler's misguided 'conspiratorial' views regarding Jews are still very popular and one of the root causes of the hatreds between Iran and Israel and their respective allies.

For example, on July 28, 2022, Iran's Supreme Ruler Ali Khamenei tweeted the following:

"The Western powers are a mafia. The reality of this power is a mafia. At the top of this mafia stand the prominent Zionist merchants, and the politicians obey them. The US is their showcase, and they’re spread out everywhere."

Classic antisemitic trope implying the existence of some sinister conspiracy of Jews which controls the US.

This is bad, but the reaction by United States Special Envoy for Monitoring and Combating Anti-Semitism, Deborah Lipstadt is also disastrous but in a more subtle way. She tweets:

"This rhetoric is unacceptable – not to mention dangerous – especially from a head of state. It must cease."

The reason why her tweet it disastrous is because Lipstadt, as well as most Jews unfortunately, not really understanding the root causes of Khamenei's errors, is left with condescending rhetoric and demands that Khamenei stop expressing his views.

This interaction is in many ways an intellectual microcosm of the Jew/Gentile frictions that played a vital role in problems going back centuries, World War Two, and the ongoing Israeli/Palestinian conflict and all that emerges from it. 

Regarding Hitler and World War Two. It was Hitler's crass antisemitism, especially the cruelty of events like Kristallnacht, where thousands of Jewish properties were vandalized, that understandably led Jews and their civilized sympathetic supporters in the US and British governments to see Nazi Germany as an even more barbaric place than Stalin's Soviet Union, and ultimately turn a small European scuffle as Hitler reunited the German city of Danzig by force by invading Poland, into a massive world war. But let's not get too deep into history. 

What we want to do is identify a repeating pattern. Some homo sapiens make numerous errors leading to antisemitism, Jews and sympathetic supporters treat the antisemites not as misguided homo sapiens, but as some "evil" people, and the calamities repeat.

So let us briefly go over Hitler's major intellectual errors which are still very prominent today.

1. Hitler, like most world leaders at the time was a Socialist. He believed that a coercive and competition-immune bureaucracy of "experts" was needed to manage or improve the social order. He was obviously a product of his time since Socialist myths dominated the thinking of most intellectuals and politicians at the time. Ludwig von Mises describes the intellectual climate of the early 1900s when he writes:

"By 1900 practically everyone in the German-speaking countries was either a statist (interventionist) or a state socialist. Capitalism was seen as a bad episode which fortunately had ended forever. The future belonged to the “State.” All enterprises suitable for expropriation were to be taken over by the state. All others were to be regulated in a way that would prevent businessmen from exploiting workers and consumers…When I entered the university, I, too, was a thorough statist."

Again, per my previous discussion, just homo sapiens going "wild" dealing with a complex socioeconomic order they just didn't understand. If Mises and Hayek and just about every great champion of freedom was once a clueless socialist, we can hardly blame Hitler, Lenin, Mao, FDR for the economic damage they caused. 

2. Let us now say a few things about Hitler's misguided racist views. 

As with Socialist mythology, racist ideas which attributed the technological superiority of Europeans to minute differences in homo sapiens (race) were understandably very popular and shared by most political leaders at the time.  For example US President Theodore Roosevelt mentioned:

“I am … a believer in the fact that it is for the good of the world that the English-speaking race in all its branches should hold as much of the world’s surface as possible.”

Churchill, who was the embodiment of British racist Imperialism mentions:

“I do not admit... that a great wrong has been done to the Red Indians of America, or the black people of Australia... by the fact that a stronger race, a higher grade race... has come in and taken its place.”

Churchill, Roosevelt, Hitler and countless leaders and “intellectuals” at the time had no idea that the emergence of 'the market process' and free-market Capitalism in Europe which took the 'white man' to such relative heights was NOT the result of biological or hardware differences between people, but what can be seen more as a change in the software that entered people's minds.

The cultural changes that have altered the way homo sapiens orders society from self-sufficient tribalism to world-wide 'market process' coordinated Social Organism have arisen in the last 20,000 years. This is an eye-blink in biological evolutionary time which would NOT have allowed significant relevant differences between homo sapiens to have played a major role in the development of modern civilization.  

Hayek explains:

>"…biological evolution would have been far too slow to alter or replace man's innate responses in the course of the ten or twenty thousand years during which civilisation has developed…. Thus it hardly seems possible that civilisation and culture are genetically determined and transmitted. They have to be learnt by all alike through tradition." 

Mises criticizes the misguided racists when he writes:

"the mental functions of primitive man proves clearly that the fundamental logical relations and the categories of thought and action play in the intellectual activities of savages the same role they play in our own life. The content of primitive man's thoughts differs from the content of our thoughts, but the formal and logical structure is common to both."
 
Again, it is all about the software and ideas, not about the hardware or biology.

Mises criticizes the racist hypothesis again by bringing up the vital fact that modern civilization's cultural great grandparents, The Sumerians, Babylonians, and Egyptians were NOT Hitler's idealized blue-eyed blond 'Aryans'. Mises writes:

"...this is no more than vague hypothesis which is at variance with the fact that the early foundations of civilization were laid by peoples of other races. We cannot know whether or not at a later date other races will supplant Western civilization."

Again, anyone who believes that race plays a significant factor in socioeconomic prosperity is greatly mistaken. It does play a factor, but mostly due to the economic fallacies people hold. If we could get enough people to really understand economics we would allow the free migration of all peoples. A person working in Africa where there are few factories and technology may produce wealth at a rate of say $4 per day, but by just moving to a more advanced country with factories/etc. like the US, he may increase his productivity 10-fold to say 40 dollars per day. Man's production of wealth and rate of technological advancement would skyrocket. 

3. There is Hitler's antisemitism of course, whose root causes we already touched upon....

Let us now focus on how homo sapiens who absorb a "Jewish identity" see things. 

Jews on the other hand make a more subtle but just as disastrous error when they see antisemitism, not as the understandable result of various fallacies, but as some sort of irrational or quasi-religious "evil", which then just leads to polarization and eventual conflict. For example, long, long, long before the Second World War broke out on Sept 1st, 1939, even before the passage of the Nuremberg laws in 1935 which discriminated against Jews, On January, 1934 Vladimir Jabotinsky, one of the most popular an influential Jews of the 20th century preached:

"For months now the struggle against Germany is waged by each Jewish community, at each conference, in all our syndicates, and by each Jew all over the world. There is reason to believe that our part in this struggle has general value. We will trigger a spiritual and material war of all the world against Germany's ambitions to become once again a great nation, to recover lost territories and colonies. But our Jewish interests demand the complete destruction of Germany. Collectively and individually, the German nation is a threat to us Jews."

These sorts of quasi-religious statements full of fatalistic language, and maniacal good vs. evil characterizations-ideology frequently blasted on leading newspapers in the USA and England for about 6 years, and their influence on sympathetic politicians, especially the already fiercely anti-German Roosevelt administration (Roosevelt had been Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Navy during World War One), coupled with the increasing antisemitism in Germany reaching its pre-war zenith during Kristallnacht (November 9-10 1938) would play the leading role in getting large groups of fellow homo sapiens to needlessly slaughter each other. 

Communism, just like antisemitism, is the result of numerous intellectual errors. Labeling Communists as "evil" or crazy of psychopaths is NOT what led to its relative demise. It was Menger and his intellectual descendants of the so-called 'Austrian School' like Mises and Hayek who managed to help enough people overcome the fallacies which led to the tyranny. Similarly, simply labeling misguided "antisemites" as evil is NOT what will end antisemitism and emerging polarizations and wars.

In just two consecutive passages Mises does away with the they are 'evil' or 'mad' fallacies and rightly brings to focus towards ideas. He writes:

"The problems involved are purely intellectual and must be dealt with as such. It is disastrous to shift them to the moral sphere and to dispose of supporters of opposite ideologies by calling them villains. It is vain to insist that what we are aiming at is good and what our adversaries want is bad. The question to be solved is precisely what is to be considered as good and what as bad. The rigid dogmatism peculiar to religious groups and to Marxism results only in irreconcilable conflict. It condemns beforehand all dissenters as evildoers, it calls into question their good faith, it asks them to surrender unconditionally. No social cooperation is possible where such an attitude prevails.

No better is the propensity, very popular nowadays, to brand supporters of other ideologies as lunatics. Psychiatrists are vague in drawing a line between sanity and insanity. It would be preposterous for laymen to interfere with this fundamental issue of psychiatry. However, it is clear that if the mere fact that a man shares erroneous views and acts according to his errors qualifies him as mentally disabled, it would be very hard to discover an individual to which the epithet sane or normal could be attributed. Then we are bound to call the past generations lunatic because their ideas about the problems of the natural sciences and concomitantly their techniques differed from ours. Coming generations will call us lunatics for the same reason. Man is liable to error. If to err were the characteristic feature of mental disability, then everybody should be called mentally disabled."

end mises quote..


All physical threats and acts of coercion are ultimately rooted in economic ignorance and must be understood as such. 

So dear Mrs. Lipstadt and Supreme Leader Mr. Khamenei, how about we get together to further discuss things and dissolve these fallacies which are preventing peace? 


